CITY CODE
OF
DIXON, ILLINOIS
Code current through:
Ord. 3459, passed June 23, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Dixon, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 3459, passed June 23, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 422
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF DIXON, ILLINOIS, AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF
THE CITY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DIXON, ILLINOIS, that:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance this
official city code of Dixon, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., and hereby
approved and accepted shall be the official code of all ordinances of a general
and permanent character of the city.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplemental
service whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general nature, amending,
altering, adding to, or deleting provisions of this official city code is
identified by the proper catch line, and following preparation by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., is inserted in the proper place in each of the official
copies. Each such insertion shall be made within thirty (30) days following the
date of adoption by the council, and each new provision shall become effective
upon such insertion.
   Section 3. At least three (3) copies of this city code shall at all times be
on file and available for inspection in the office of the clerk.
   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval as provided by law.
   Passed this seventh day of July, 1963.
   Approved this seventh day of July, 1963.
   /s/    
      Mayor
/s/    
Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction Of Words
1-1-5: Interpretations
1-1-6: Severability
1-1-7: Title, Chapter And Section Headings And Catchlines
1-1-8: Supplementation Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the governing body this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Dixon. Any
reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document. (1963 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect. (1963
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1963 Code)
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto. (1963 Code)
1-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1963 Code)
1-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-1-7: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS AND CATCHLINES:
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
   (B)   Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not
be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning
or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-1-8: SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE:
When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the person,
agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal,
nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the
supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified
code. For example, the codifier may:
   (A)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
   (B)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles;
   (C)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
   (D)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this article", "this chapter", etc., as the case may be, or to "sections
                to                " (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
   (E)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of ordinance sections or the alphabetical arrangement of new chapters
or sections inserted into the code, but in no case shall the codifier make any
change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the
supplement or already embodied in the code. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances. (1963 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only. (1963 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Dixon.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this code.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed
in any statute now or hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also
be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the city of
Dixon.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
ILCS: The Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Is permissive.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENTLY: A want of such attention to the
nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man
ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the city of
Dixon.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Shall include the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or any other
form of association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER; WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty
1-4-1-1: Settlement Of Certain Ordinance Violation Charges
1-4-2: Default; Labor (Rep. by Ord. 2243, 5-15-2000)
1-4-3: License
1-4-4: Application
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: PENALTY 1 :
   (A)   Limits Of Fine: Unless otherwise provided in this code, any person who
shall violate any section of this code shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
   (B)   Continuing Violation: In any case in which an offense is of a
continuing nature, each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, and shall subject the person so violating such provision to a
separate fine for each such day.
   (C)   Public Service: Any penalty imposed for a violation of this code may
include, or consist of, a requirement that the person so convicted performs
some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up
of litter in public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public
facilities. (Ord. 1028, 1-7-1980; amd. Ord. 1952, 8-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2913, 6-
3-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-1-1: SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN ORDINANCE VIOLATION CHARGES:
Any person who has received a citation for violation of any of the code
sections or ordinances listed or incorporated hereafter may settle an initial
ordinance violation charge by paying the amount set forth in this section. Any
person charged with a subsequent violation of any of the code sections
hereafter listed may settle such subsequent ordinance violation charge by
paying one and one-half (11/2) times the amount set forth in this section.
Citations issued for first time violations of the following sections of this
code may be settled, compromised, and paid in the respective amounts set forth
in the following schedule:
Offense Code Section Settlement Amount
Offense                                    Code Section Settlement Amount
Depositing of waste/littering              4-3-9        $150.00
Illegal encroachment                       4-7-1(E)     100.00
Dumping on right of way                    4-7-1(I)     100.00
Exterior storage of junk or machinery      4-7-1(J)     100.00
Storage of materials which may harbor rats 4-7-1(L)     100.00
Inoperable vehicle                         4-7-1(N)     100.00
Grass and weeds in excess 8 inches         4-7-5        100.00
Unnecessary noises                         4-7-7        150.00
Possession of open alcohol in public       5-13-8(E)    150.00
Installing sign without permit             6-6-4        100.00
Prohibited sign                            6-6-22       100.00
Parking in residential lawn                6-9-2(E)     100.00
Constructing without permit                7-1-9(A)     100.00
Unregistered contractor                    7-1-9(D)1    150.00
Swimming pool enclosure                    7-4-1(A)     125.00
Property maintenance violations            7-7-1        100.00
Fencing without permit                     7-9-1        100.00
Illegal burning                            8-3-5-1(A)   150.00
Battery                                    9-2-34       400.00
Disorderly conduct                         9-2-34       300.00
Possession of cannabis                     9-2-34       400.00
Possession of drug paraphernalia           9-2-34       500.00
Unlawful consumption/possession of alcohol 9-2-34       350.00
Barking dog                                9-4-3        150.00
Dog running at large                       9-4-5        150.00
Skateboarding in a prohibited area         10-12-9(C)   150.00
For all other violations of ordinances not listed above, any person may settle
an initial violation of such ordinance by paying the minimum amount of the fine
specified by such ordinance or by section
1-4-1 of this chapter, as is applicable, plus fifty dollars ($50.00). Any
person charged with a subsequent violation of such ordinance not set forth
above may settle such subsequent ordinance violation charge by paying one and
one-half (11/2) times the amount required for settlement of an initial
ordinance violation charge.
Counsel for the city or his or her designee may withdraw any such offer for
settlement, refuse payment or refund payments previously made if the city
attorney or his designee believes that such settlement would not be in the best
interests of the city, would not lead to future compliance with this code, or
would deprecate the seriousness of the offense.
If payment in full is not received ten (10) days or more before the listed
court date of any such citation, the city may authorize the city attorney or
his or her designee to proceed with an ordinance violation charge by filing
such charge with the Lee County circuit clerk's office. In the event the city
proceeds with the filing of an ordinance violation, the respondent shall be
responsible for all costs to the extent permissible by law, in addition to any
fine. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013; amd. Ord. 2928, 10-21-2013; amd. Ord. 3011, 5-16-
2016; amd. Ord. 3155, 8-5-2019; amd. 2020 Code)
1-4-2: DEFAULT; LABOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 2243, 5-15-2000)
1-4-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by the court or by
the governing body. (1963 Code)
1-4-4: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach of violation occurs or continues 1 . (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7.
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provisions of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the governing body to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee
is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Membership; Powers And Duties
1-5-2: Time And Place Of Meetings
1-5-3: Special Meetings
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Rules For Electronic Attendance At Meetings
1-5-6: Presiding Officer; Contracts
1-5-7: Rules Of Procedure
1-5-8: Order Of Business
1-5-9: Public Comment
1-5-10: Meeting Disruptions
1-5-11: Independent Audits
1-5-12: Emergency Interim Executive Succession
1-5-1: MEMBERSHIP; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The council shall consist of a mayor and four (4) council members elected as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-2-12. The council shall be the
governing body of the city and shall have the powers and duties as prescribed
by state statute. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-2: TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS:
The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third
Mondays of each and every month at the hour of five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M.
in the council room of city hall in the city of Dixon, Illinois. When such
meeting days happen to fall on holidays, the council shall meet on the day
following said holiday at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held for the
purpose of completing unfinished business of regular or special meetings at
such times as may be determined by the council. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
1-5-3: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings of the council may be called by the mayor or any three (3)
council members by giving to all members of the council written notice of such
meeting. Such notice shall be mailed or delivered to each member of the council
at least forty eight (48) hours before the time set for the special meeting. If
all members of the council are present at a special meeting, however, no notice
of such meeting is necessary. Notice to the public of special meetings shall be
given as specified in the Illinois open meetings act. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-4: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, and the affirmative vote of three (3) members shall be necessary
to adopt any motion, resolution or ordinance, unless a greater number is
required by ordinance or state statute. A number of council members less than
three (3) may adjourn from time to time. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-5: RULES FOR ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
   (A)   Any member of the council, or of any commission, committee or board of
the city (each a "public body"), may attend any open or closed meeting of the
public body via electronic means (video or audio conference) provided that such
attendance is in compliance with these rules.
   (B)   Before the public body shall consider electronic attendance at a
specific meeting, the member desiring to attend electronically shall have
notified the city clerk at least four (4) hours before the meeting and assert
one of the following reasons why he or she is prevented from physically
attending the meeting:
      1. Personal illness or disability;
      2. Employment purposes or the business of the city; or
      3. A family or other emergency.
   (C)   The city clerk, after receiving proper notice of a request for
electronic attendance at a specific meeting, shall inform the presiding officer
of the public body of the request.
   (D)   At the meeting of the public body where a member desires to attend
electronically, after first establishing that there is a quorum physically
present, the presiding officer shall state that: 1) a notice was received from
a member in accordance with these rules, and 2) that the member will be
permitted to attend the meeting electronically only upon the affirmative vote
of a majority of the public body physically present at the meeting. If no
motion authorizing electronic attendance is made and seconded or such motion
fails to achieve the required vote, the request by the member to attend the
meeting electronically shall be deemed denied by the public body and the
presiding officer shall declare the requesting member absent. If such motion
receives the required vote, the requesting member shall be declared present and
allowed to attend the meeting electronically. Such member shall be entitled to
participate in the meeting in the same manner as those members physically
present.
   (E)   The electronic attendance shall be terminated if the member attending
electronically and other members of the public body cannot communicate
effectively or members of the audience are unable to hear all such
communications.
   (F)   The minutes of any meeting with a member attending electronically
shall reflect whether each member of the public body is physically present or
present by electronic means. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-6: PRESIDING OFFICER; CONTRACTS:
The mayor shall preside at all regular and special meetings of the council;
provided, that in the absence of the mayor, the council members who are present
shall select one of the members to serve as the presiding officer. The mayor
shall sign on behalf of the city all contracts, licenses, deeds and bonds,
except as may be delegated to the city manager or as otherwise provided by
state statute. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-7: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The council shall at all its meetings and in the transaction of all its
business be governed by such rules of procedure as usually govern parliamentary
and legislative bodies of a similar kind insofar as they are applicable and
except as otherwise provided by state statute. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
1-5-8: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
When a quorum is present at regular meetings of the council, the council shall
proceed to the business before them which shall be conducted in the following
order, unless the same is temporarily suspended or modified at the discretion
of the presiding officer:
   (A)   Roll call of members.
   (B)   Reading, correcting and approving of the record of proceedings of the
last preceding meeting or meetings, unless dispensed with by the council.
   (C)   Reading, consideration and approval of bills.
   (D)   Reports of city manager, officers and committees.
   (E)   Consideration of petitions and communications.
   (F)   Public comment.
   (G)   Unfinished business.
   (H)   Miscellaneous or new business.
   (I)   Closed session.
   (J)   Adjournment. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-9: PUBLIC COMMENT:
   (A)   Procedure: Any person seeking to address the members of the council,
or any commission, committee or board of the city, at any public meeting will
be permitted to speak on any matter listed on the agenda or any other matter of
public concern in accordance with these rules and applicable state statutes.
   (B)   Council Meetings:
      1. The agenda for each meeting of the council shall include a "public
comment" item, during which any member of the public may address the council.
Any person so addressing the council shall state his or her name and the topic
of discussion at the commencement of that person's comments.
      2. No person shall speak or address the council unless first recognized
by the presiding officer.
      3. Public comment at a council meeting shall be limited to no more than
five (5) minutes per commenter and to no more than one hour total per meeting,
unless either of said time limits is extended by majority vote of the council
members present. The presiding officer may designate the city clerk, chief of
police or other officer of the city to monitor the time utilized by each
speaker and to notify the speaker when the allotted time has expired.
      4. At any meeting of the council, the presiding officer, at his or her
discretion, may request that persons desiring to address the council at that
meeting sign in on a "request to comment" form, providing for the speaker's
name and the topic to be discussed by the speaker.
      5. If the presiding officer recognizes that more than twenty (20) persons
wish to address the council at any one meeting, the presiding officer may limit
each speaker to comment of no more than three (3) minutes. Whenever any group
of persons wishes to address the council on the same subject matter, the
presiding officer may request that a spokesperson be chosen from the group. If
such spokesperson speaks on behalf of multiple members of a group, the
presiding officer may permit the spokesperson to address for a period longer
than the otherwise specified time limits. If other matters are to be presented
by other persons in the same group, the presiding officer may request that the
group limit the number of such persons or may request that the additional
comment be limited to information which has not already been presented by the
group spokesperson or by other members of the group in order that the total
comment period for that meeting not be exceeded.
      6. Any person invited by a member of the council to address the council
at a meeting is subject to such time limitation, if any, as the majority of the
members of the council present may prescribe.
   (C)   Meetings Of Commissions, Committees And Boards:
      1. The time limits specified above shall not apply to persons addressing
the zoning board of appeals, plan commission or any other municipal body when
such body is conducting a quasi- judicial hearing. Any such body may establish
reasonable rules and time limits regarding the number and amount of time that
persons advocating for or against pending matters must follow, so long as such
rules conform to other requirements of state statute.
      2. Commissions, committees or other boards duly appointed or acting
pursuant to authority of the council may establish rules for public comment and
for persons wishing to address that commission, committee or board. No rules
adopted by any such commission, committee or board shall be adopted that are
more restrictive than the rules established for comment to the council. In the
absence of the establishment of rules for public comment by any commission,
committee or board, the rules governing public comment for the council shall
apply. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-10: MEETING DISRUPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any regular or special meeting of
the council or any meeting of any commission, committee or board of the city.
Any person violating any provision of this section may be prosecuted as
provided by law and may be summarily removed from the council chambers and city
hall or such other place where the meeting is held. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015)
1-5-11: INDEPENDENT AUDITS:
The council shall provide for an annual independent audit of all accounts of
the city for the prior fiscal year, which audits shall be conducted
independently of the city manager by some person or firm selected by the
council. Full reports of such audits shall be filed in the public records of
the city and as required by statute. The power with respect to such audits by
the council shall not be construed in any manner to limit the responsibility of
the city manager or other officers of the city for the proper expenditures of
city funds. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-5-12: EMERGENCY INTERIM EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION:
   (A)   Definitions: Whenever the following words or terms are used in this
section, they shall have the meaning hereinafter ascribed:
   ATTACK: Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
   DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of catastrophic and widespread injury or
loss of life or property within the city resulting from any natural or manmade
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, epidemic and
explosion.
   EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this section,
in the event the lawful incumbent mayor is unavailable, to exercise the powers
and discharge the duties of the office of mayor until a successor is appointed
or elected and qualified as may be provided by Illinois law and this code or
until the lawful incumbent mayor is able to resume the exercise of the powers
and discharge the duties of the office of mayor.
   UNAVAILABLE: Either that a vacancy in the office of mayor exists or the
lawful incumbent mayor is absent or unable to exercise the powers and discharge
the duties of the office of mayor.
   (B)   Order Of Successor: In the event of an attack or disaster resulting in
the lawful incumbent mayor being unavailable, the emergency interim successor
shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office of mayor. The
emergency interim successor shall be the following persons in the order
hereafter set forth:
      1. The councilman with the highest number of consecutive years and days
in office;
      2. The councilman with the second highest number of consecutive years and
days in office;
      3. The councilman with the third highest number of consecutive years and
days in office; and
      4. The councilman with the fourth highest number of consecutive years and
days in office.
If two (2) or more councilmen share the same number of consecutive years and
days in office, the emergency interim successor shall be the most senior
councilman by age.
   (C)   Oath Of Office: At the time of designation, the emergency interim
successor shall take the oath of office required of the office of mayor. The
emergency interim successor shall not be required to comply with any other
provision of law relative to taking office.
   (D)   Powers; Termination: The emergency interim successor is empowered to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office of mayor only after
an attack or during a disaster. The council may, by majority vote of the
corporate authorities, at any time terminate the authority of the emergency
interim successor and, if necessary, fill any vacancy in the office of mayor in
accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 2967, 5-18-2015)
CHAPTER 6
MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6-1: Establishment Of Office
1-6-2: Appointment; Qualifications
1-6-3: Absence Or Disability; Vacancy In Office
1-6-4: Removal
1-6-5: Duties
1-6-6: Council's Relationship To Administrative Service
1-6-7: Assistant City Manager
1-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established the Office of City Manager. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
1-6-2: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The City Manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the Council for an
indefinite term. The Council shall choose the City Manager solely on the basis
of his or her professional qualifications, including education and experience,
and without regard to his or her political beliefs. Within twelve (12) months
of his or her appointment, the City Manager shall reside within the geographic
boundaries of Community Unit School District #170 (also known as the Dixon
Public School District). No member of the Council shall receive an appointment
to the position of City Manager during the term for which such member shall
have been elected, nor within one year after the expiration of such member's
term. (Ord. 3066, 11-6-2017)
1-6-3: ABSENCE OR DISABILITY; VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In the case of absence or disability of the City Manager, the Assistant City
Manager shall perform the duties of City Manager during such absence or
disability. In the event of vacancy in the Office of City Manager, the Council
shall fill the vacancy within one hundred twenty (120) days after the effective
date of such vacancy. (Ord. 3073, 12-18-2017)
1-6-4: REMOVAL:
The Council may remove the City Manager at any time by majority vote of
Council, subject to the terms and conditions of the City Manager's employment
agreement, if any. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-6-5: DUTIES:
   The City Manager shall be the Administrative Officer of the City and shall
be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments. The duties
of the City Manager are as follows:
   (A)   To enforce the laws and ordinances of the City.
   (B)   To appoint, remove or suspend any officer, department head or employee
of the City, except when such power is vested in the Council or other
commission, committee or board of the City under this Code or any applicable
State Statute or pursuant to the terms of any collective bargaining agreement.
No appointment shall be made on any basis other than that of merit and fitness.
Upon suspending or discharging any department head, officer or employee, he or
she shall submit to the Council a statement setting forth the reasons therefor.
   (C)   To recommend to the Council the wages and benefits for each position
within the service of the City.
   (D)   To exercise control of all departments and divisions of the City that
may be created by the Council.
   (E)   To receive notice of and attend all meetings of the Council unless
excused therefrom by the Council. The City Manager shall have the privilege of
taking part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council but he
or she shall have no vote thereon.
   (F)   To recommend to the Council for adoption such measures as he or she
may deem necessary or expedient.
   (G)   To investigate all complaints pertaining to the administration of the
City and to services maintained by the public utilities of the City and see
that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the City are faithfully
observed.
   (H)   To have all powers and exercise all the duties granted to the City
Clerk and City Treasurer with respect to the preparation of a report of
estimated funds necessary to defray the expenses of the City for the fiscal
year for the consideration of the Council prior to the preparation of the
annual budget ordinance.
   (I)   To prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council.
   (J)   To keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the City and make such recommendations as may be deemed desirable.
   (K)   To purchase all materials, supplies, equipment and services for which
funds are provided in the City's budget, and to enter into contracts with
respect to the same; provided, that the City Manager may not purchase any items
or enter into any contracts that exceed twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) without the prior approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency, the City Manager may purchase materials, supplies, equipment and
services, and enter into contracts with respect to the same, for the purpose of
remediating the emergency; provided, that: 1) within fourteen (14) days the
City Manager shall file with the Council a certificate explaining the emergency
and an itemization of all expenditures and contracts in connection therewith,
and 2) competitive bidding rules shall be followed unless waived by the Council
in accordance with State Statute.
   (L)   To supervise the negotiation of all collective bargaining agreements
between the City and unions representing employees of the City.
   (M)   To examine all other proposed contracts of the City, advise the
Council with respect to the same, and supervise the performance of the terms
and conditions of any contract to which the City is a party.
   (N)   To recommend to the Council intergovernmental agreements with other
public agencies pursuant to the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 220/
1 et seq.; provided, that all such intergovernmental agreements shall be in
writing, set forth fully the purposes, powers, rights, objectives and
responsibilities of the contracting parties, and be approved by the Council.
   (O)   To perform such other duties as may be directed by the Council or as
required by State Statute.
(Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; amd. Ord. 3318, 7-18-2022; Ord. 3398, 5-
6-2024)
1-6-6: COUNCIL'S RELATIONSHIP TO ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE:
Except where such power is reserved to the Council, no member of the Council
shall have the authority to direct the City Manager to appoint or remove any
person from employment by the City. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-6-7: ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER:
There is hereby established the Office of Assistant City Manager. The Assistant
City Manager may be appointed, and may be removed, from time to time by the
Council with the advice of the City Manager. The Assistant City Manager shall
be selected from among the department heads and superintendents of the City.
The Assistant City Manager shall have such duties and responsibilities as may
be assigned by the City Manager and this Code. (Ord. 3073, 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 7
CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Establishment Of Office; Appointment
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Compliance With Freedom Of Information Act
1-7-4: FOIA Officer
1-7-5: Deputy City Clerk
1-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established the office of city clerk. The city clerk shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council for a definite term not
to exceed the term of the mayor then holding office. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the clerk shall be as follows:
   (A)   The city clerk shall keep the corporate seal provided by the corporate
authorities and all papers belonging to the city the custody and control of
which are not given to other officers.
   (B)   The clerk shall attend all meetings of the city council and shall keep
a full and correct record of all its proceedings and shall perform all duties
which may be required by him of law and all other duties which, by usage and
custom, devolve upon clerks of incorporated bodies.
   (C)   The clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the city, and all
licenses, permits and other documents which require this formality.
   (D)   The clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by him, and
the source and disposition thereof; and such other accounts as may be required
by statute or the applicable provisions of this code.
   (E)   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the
clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register for all licenses
and permits issued, and a record of the payment thereon; he shall keep a record
showing all of the officers and regular employees of the city, and such other
records as may be required by the council.
   (F)   The clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever required.
   (G)   The clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
   (H)   The clerk shall keep all records, papers, ordinances, notes and
proceedings of the council, and of the city during the recess of the council,
and of all elections of city officers. He shall record and index in a book to
be kept for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the council, and a record of
the date of passage and of the publication of the ordinance which record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and legal publication of such ordinances for all purposes whatsoever.
   (I)   He shall have all ordinances published immediately after their passage
when required by law so to do.
   (J)   The clerk shall act as secretary of the board of local improvements.
(Ord. 764, 10-1-1973; amd. 2020 Code)
1-7-3: COMPLIANCE WITH FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT:
The city clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the city
which are not assigned to the custody of some other office of the city by the
mayor or city council, and shall be responsible for maintaining the city's
compliance with the freedom of information act. (Ord. 2769, 12-21-2009)
1-7-4: FOIA OFFICER:
   (A)   The city clerk, or any individual acting in the official capacity as
designated city clerk, is hereby appointed by the city council to be the
designated chief freedom of information act officer for the city to be
responsible for and to perform those duties required by the Illinois freedom of
information act 1  (herein the "act"). In such capacity the city clerk shall be
responsible for maintaining the city's compliance with all statutory
obligations of the act and be empowered to consult with the city attorney in
complying with all issues relating to the act. The deputy clerk shall also
serve as a designated freedom of information act officer and assist the city
clerk in performing such duties as necessary to maintain the city's compliance
with the act.
   (B)   The city clerk shall make: 1) the directory of FOIA officers; 2) the
address where requests for public records should be directed; and 3) any fees
allowable under section 6 of the act; available for inspection and copying upon
request or through the mail, and shall also cause that information to be posted
on the official website of the city. (Ord. 2769, 12-21-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-7-5: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
   (A)   The deputy city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the council for a definite term not to exceed the term of the mayor
then holding office.
   (B)   The deputy city clerk, during any absence in the office of city clerk,
shall perform the same functions and have the same authority and duties as the
city clerk. In addition, the deputy city clerk shall assist in the work of the
city clerk under his or her direction. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 8
ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Establishment Of Office; Appointment
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Employment Of Additional Counsel
1-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established the office of city attorney. The city attorney
shall be appointed for an indefinite period of time by, and shall report to,
the city manager. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
   (A)   To be the legal advisor to the city and to render advice on all
questions of law affecting the city whenever requested to do so.
   (B)   To prosecute and defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity
to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the city on behalf of the city,
or in capacity of such person as an officer of the city.
   (C)   To see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the city in all courts of law.
   (D)   To prosecute all actions for violations of the ordinances of the city
and to conduct all proceedings in courts of law or on appeal therefrom.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to draft or supervise the
phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents and instruments to
which the city may be a party; and to draft ordinances and resolutions covering
any subjects within the powers of the city. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
1-8-3: EMPLOYMENT OF ADDITIONAL COUNSEL:
The council may authorize the employment of additional counsel to give legal
advice or render service to the city. The city manager shall retain said
additional counsel. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 9
TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Establishment Of Office; Appointment
1-9-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-15-4, Supervision Of City Treasurer.
1-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established the office of city treasurer. The city treasurer
shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council for a definite
term not to exceed the term of the mayor then holding office. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-
2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-9-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the city treasurer shall be as follows:
   (A)   The city treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the
corporation and shall keep a separate account of each fund and appropriation
and the debits and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give to every
person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date
of payment and upon what account paid; and he or she shall file copies of such
receipts with the city clerk at the date of his or her monthly report.
   (B)   The city treasurer shall keep an accurate register of all warrants
redeemed and paid by him or her, showing the number, date and amount of each,
the fund from which paid; and he or she shall cancel all warrants as soon as
redeemed.
   (C)   All monies received by the city treasurer on any special assessment or
special tax shall be held by him or her as a special fund to be applied to the
payment of the improvement for which such special assessment or special tax was
made and said money shall be used for no other purpose whatever except to
reimburse the city for money expended for such improvement.
   (D)   The city treasurer shall keep all monies in his or her hands belonging
to the corporation separate and distinct from his or her own money; and he or
she is expressly prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the
corporation money or warrants, in his or her custody and keeping, for his or
her own use and benefit, or that of any other person; and any violation of this
subsection shall subject him or her to removal from office.
   (E)   The city treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such
manner as to show all monies received and disbursed by him or her for the city,
stating from whom and on what account received and to whom and on what account
paid out, and in such way that the books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood, and the same, together with all files and papers
of the office, electronic or otherwise, shall be at all times open to
examination by the city manager, the city clerk or any member of the council.
   (F)   The city treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and more
often if so required, render an account, under oath, to the council, showing
the state of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money
in the treasury. He or she shall accompany such account with a statement of all
monies received into the treasury, and on what account received, together with
all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her during the preceding month, which
warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be delivered to
the city clerk and filed with his or her accounts in the city clerk's office;
and he or she shall return all warrants paid by him or her stamped or marked
"paid".
   (G)   The city treasurer shall annually, within the time required by law,
make out and file with the city clerk a full and detailed report of all
receipts and expenditures of the city, as shown by his or her books, and of all
his or her transactions as such treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and
he or she shall, in such report, show the state of the treasury at the close of
such year, which report the city clerk shall cause to be published without
delay.
   (H)   The city treasurer shall be ex officio custodian of the Oakwood
Cemetery endowment fund.
   (I)   The city treasurer shall perform such other related duties as may be
assigned by the city finance director from time to time and such additional
duties as are set forth in this code and as the council may determine necessary
or as required by state statute. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 10
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Design And Size Of Corporate Seal
1-10-2: Custody Of Corporate Seal
1-10-1: DESIGN AND SIZE OF CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form, two and one-half
inches (21/2") in diameter, with a portrait of Father John Dixon stamped or
engraved thereon and with the words, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, and
the figures 1857 engraved upon the face thereof. (1950 Code)
1-10-2: CUSTODY OF CORPORATE SEAL:
The clerk shall be the custodian of the corporate seal. He shall affix the
impression of the seal to all commissions or other official documents required
to be issued by him, and attest or countersign the same. He shall affix the
seal to all official acts of the mayor requiring it and if necessary, attest
the same. He shall also certify under the corporate seal, copies of all
records, ordinances, documents or papers in his office, when required by any
city officer or other person, upon tender of his proper fees and charges
therefor, where such fees or charges are authorized by any law. In no case
shall the impression of the seal be binding upon the city unless it be
authorized by the laws thereof, and is attested by the official signature of
the clerk.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2505.png]
(1950 Code)
CHAPTER 11
BONDS, OATHS AND SALARIES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Bonds Of City Officers And Employees
1-11-2: Oath Requirement
1-11-3: Salaries
1-11-1: BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of their separate offices, the Mayor,
each member of the Council, the City Manager, the City Clerk, the City
Treasurer and all other required officers and employees of the City shall
execute a bond with good and sufficient security to be approved by the Council
payable to the City in such penal sums as directed in this section, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the payment of all
money received by the officer, according to law and the ordinances of the City.
   (B)   All bonds shall be filed with the City Clerk, except that the bond of
the City Clerk shall be filed with the City Treasurer.
   (C)   The bonds of the various elected officials, officers and employees
shall be in the penal sums hereafter set forth:
      1. The bond of the Mayor shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
      2. The bond of each member of the Council shall be three thousand dollars
($3,000.00).
      3. The bond of the City Manager shall be three thousand dollars
($3,000.00).
      4. The bond of the City Treasurer shall be not less than the greater of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or three (3) times the latest Federal
census for the City or any subsequent census figure used for Motor Fuel Tax
purposes.
      5. All other appointed officers and employees shall be covered by a
commercial blanket bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-11-2: OATH REQUIREMENT:
Before entering upon the duties of their offices, all officers, whether elected
or appointed, shall take and subscribe the oath or affirmation required by the
Illinois Constitution or as otherwise required by State Statute. The subscribed
oath or affirmation shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-11-3: SALARIES:
   (A)   The salary of the mayor shall be nineteen thousand five hundred
dollars ($19,500.00) per year, which sum shall be payable in monthly
installments commencing with the first month in office. Commencing with the
four-year term of the mayor that begins in 2027, and thereafter, the salary of
the mayor shall be twenty-four thousand dollars ($24,000) per year, which sum
shall be payable in monthly installments commencing with the first month in
office.
   (B)   Until changed as hereafter set forth, the salary of each member of the
council shall be nine thousand five hundred dollars ($9,500.00) per year, which
sum shall be payable in monthly installments commencing with the first month in
office. With respect to those members of the council commencing a four-year
term in 2025, and continuing thereafter, the salary of such members shall be
twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) per year, which sum shall be payable in
monthly installments commencing with the first month in office. With respect to
those members of the council commencing a four-year term in 2027, and
continuing thereafter, the salary of such members shall be twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000) per year, which sum shall be payable in monthly installments
commencing with the first month in office.
   (C)   The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the Council shall
fix from time to time, subject to the terms and conditions of the City
Manager's employment agreement, if any.
   (D)   The wages and benefits for all other positions within the service of
the City, with the exception of employees subject to a union contract, shall be
as established annually by resolution of the Council. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015; amd. Ord. 3037, 4-17-2017; Ord. 3113. 10-1-2018; Ord. 3345, 4-
17-2023)
CHAPTER 12
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Corporate Limits
1-12-1: CORPORATE LIMITS:
The corporate limits shall be as shown and designated on the official map on
file in the office of the clerk, which is hereby adopted and made a part of
this chapter as if set out at length herein. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-13-1: Creation Of Department; Appointment Of Director Of Public Works
1-13-2: Divisions; Supervision
1-13-3: Qualifications
1-13-4: Duties Of Director Of Public Works
1-13-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
There is hereby established a department of public works, which shall be under
the jurisdiction and control of the city manager. The head of the department of
public works shall be the director of public works, who shall be appointed by
the city manager for an indefinite period of time. The department of public
works shall also include the superintendent of streets and public properties,
the superintendent of water, the superintendent of wastewater treatment, and
such additional employees as the council may determine to be necessary. (Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; amd. Ord. 3337, 1-17-2023)
1-13-2: DIVISIONS; SUPERVISION:
   (A)   The street and public properties department, the water department, and
the wastewater treatment department are hereby combined into a single
department of public works and deemed separate divisions of the department of
public works. The department of public works shall be under the supervision and
direction of the director of public works. Subject to the foregoing, the
superintendent of streets and public properties shall supervise the department
of streets and public properties, the superintendent of water shall supervise
the water department, and the superintendent of wastewater treatment shall
supervise the wastewater treatment department.
   (B)   All employees of the city who are, as of the effective date hereof,
employees of the streets and public properties department, the water
department, and the wastewater treatment department shall be employees of the
department of public works and shall be assigned as to the various divisions as
determined by the director of public works. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015; amd. Ord. 3337, 1-17-2023)
1-13-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The qualifications of the director of public works and the superintendents of
the divisions of the departments of public works shall be as prescribed from
time to time by the council. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-13-4: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
The duties of the director of public works shall be as follows:
   (A)   Have charge of the construction and care of all public property,
including public streets and alleys, in the city.
   (B)   Supervise the lighting of the public streets and alleys and keep the
lighting system in efficient operation and good repair.
   (C)   Review or approve all plans, blueprints, and specifications of public
improvements, made or caused to be made by the city; the director shall be the
city's chief supervisory official on and for all public improvements, and no
work shall be accepted and payment made therefor except upon his or her
approval and certification.
   (D)   Keep all city maps and plats current and be responsible for the
procurement, care, and custody of such maps, plats, and plans necessary to the
efficient conduct of the department of public works.
   (E)   Oversee all contract engineering services and complete an engineering
review of all development projects.
   (F)   In conjunction with the city manager and council, plan, design,
document and supervise the construction of city projects.
   (G)   Work in conjunction with the superintendents of the divisions of the
department of public works and the city building official to provide for the
maintenance and development of all public facilities, utilities, and property.
   (H)   Be responsible for communicating with the necessary state and federal
regulatory bodies that govern the funding, planning, design and construction
processes of city projects.
   (I)   Give monthly reports of construction and maintenance activities with a
yearly summary of all projects completed and proposed to the city manager and
council.
   (J)   Inform the public of the plans and goals of the city and the reasoning
and goals of city projects.
   (K)   The director of public works shall perform such related duties as may
be assigned by the city manager from time to time and such additional duties as
are set forth in this code and as the council may determine necessary.
   (L)   Supervise and direct the various divisions and superintendents of the
department of public works, subject to the jurisdiction and control of the city
manager.
   (M)   Serve as city safety officer, as the same may be required under
applicable law. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 14
BUILDING AND ZONING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-14-1: Establishment Of Department; Appointment Of City Building Official
1-14-2: Qualifications
1-14-3: Duties
1-14-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT OF CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL:
There is hereby established a department of building and zoning, which shall be
under the jurisdiction and control of the city manager. The head of the
department of building and zoning shall be the city building official, who
shall be appointed by the city manager for an indefinite period of time as
further set forth in section
7-1-2 of this code. The department of building and zoning shall include such
additional employees as the council may determine to be necessary. (Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-14-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The qualifications of the city building official shall be as set forth in
section
7-1-3 of this code. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-14-3: DUTIES:
The city building official shall perform the duties set forth in section
7-1-4 of this code, such other related duties as may be assigned by the city
manager from time to time and such additional duties as are set forth in this
code and as the council may determine necessary. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
CHAPTER 15
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Establishment Of Department; Appointment Of Finance Director
1-15-2: Qualifications
1-15-3: Duties
1-15-4: Supervision Of City Treasurer
1-15-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT OF FINANCE DIRECTOR:
There is hereby established a department of finance, which shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of the city manager. The head of the department of
finance shall be the finance director, who shall be appointed by the city
manager for an indefinite period of time. The department of finance shall
include such additional employees as the council may determine to be necessary.
(Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-15-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The qualifications of the finance director shall be as prescribed from time to
time by the council. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-15-3: DUTIES:
The duties of the finance director shall be as follows:
   (A)   Plan, organize and direct all accounts and finance department
operations and employees.
   (B)   Provide financial and other analysis to the council, city manager and
department heads.
   (C)   Develop, implement and monitor policies and procedures to assure
preservation of city assets and accounting control of city finances.
   (D)   Participate in the preparation of the annual budget of the city,
including financial framework for budget projections and budgetary activities
and monitor the budget during the fiscal year.
   (E)   Participate in coordination of risk management programs, negotiation
of liability and health insurance contracts and coordinate insurance claims.
   (F)   Participate in negotiations with collective bargaining units.
   (G)   Oversee the city's annual audit process.
   (H)   Review proposals for the development of the city, including economic
and financial aspects of annexations, and residential, commercial and
industrial growth.
   (I)   Participate in the development of plans for multiyear capital
improvement programs.
   (J)   Prepare all required national, state and county fiscal reports and
monthly financial reports.
   (K)   Such other related duties as may be assigned by the city manager from
time to time and such additional duties as are set forth in this code and as
the council may determine necessary. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-15-4: SUPERVISION OF CITY TREASURER:
The city treasurer shall serve under the finance director. The offices of city
treasurer and finance director may be occupied by the same person. (Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 16
EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-16-1: Adoption Of Act
1-16-2: Ethics Advisor
1-16-3: Ethics Commission
1-16-1: ADOPTION OF ACT:
   (A)   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2 of the state
official and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq.
(hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section), are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the
extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under this act, by an officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
an officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of the city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the city
council.
   (I)   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or hearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the city council if the act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme
court.
   (J)   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the city council. (Ord.
2483, 5-17-2004; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-16-2: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   (A)   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council shall
designate an ethics advisor for the city. The duties of the ethics advisor may
be delegated to an officer or employee of the city unless the position has been
created as an office by the city.
   (B)   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the city concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the city council. (Ord. 2483,
5-17-2004; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
1-16-3: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the city of Dixon. The commission shall be comprised of three (3)
members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission who is related,
either by blood or marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected
officer of the city.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   (C)   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may remove
a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office after service on the commissioner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a copy of the written charges against the commissioner and after
providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than
ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   (D)   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1. To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2. Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary action and refer violation of this chapter to the appropriate
attorney for prosecution. The commission shall, however, act only upon the
receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation of this chapter and not
upon its own prerogative.
      3. To receive information from the public pertaining to its investigation
and to require additional information and documents from persons who may have
violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4. To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production of
books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the city of Dixon to cooperate with the commission
during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with
requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or
discharge.
      5. The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters clearly
within the purview of this chapter.
   (E)   The following procedures shall govern the filing of complaints:
      1. Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2. Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3. Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days of receiving the complaint.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter
then the commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by the city
council to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the attorney the
complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the commission
concerning the alleged violation. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to
allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public. (Ord. 2483, 5-17-2004; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 17
FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 1, Fire Department.
CHAPTER 18
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1, Police Department.
CHAPTER 19
LEGAL DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION
SECTION:
1-19-1: Legal Defense And Indemnification Described
1-19-1: LEGAL DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION DESCRIBED:
   (A)   To the extent permissible under law, the city shall defend, save
harmless and indemnify its current and former commissioners, council members,
board members, officers, or employees against any civil, criminal or
administrative action, suit or proceeding instituted or threatened to be
instituted against them, based upon any act, error or omission that could be
reasonably construed to be within the exercise of their lawful duties or scope
of employment, and against judgments, fines and other costs and liabilities,
including amounts paid in settlement sustained as a result of, and reasonable
expenses, including attorney fees, incurred in connection with the
investigation, defense, adverse decision, compromise or settlement of any such
action, suit or proceeding or threat thereof.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to providing defense or indemnification
to any such action, suit or proceeding instituted by or on behalf of the city
against such commissioner, council member, board member, officer or employee,
or situations involving claims of wilful and wanton misconduct or acts outside
the scope of authority.
   (C)   The rights expressed in this chapter shall not be exclusive of any
other rights which any current or former commissioner, council member, board
member, officer or employee may have as a matter of law or fact. The foregoing
rights, shall, in the case of the death of a commissioner, council member,
board member, officer or employee, accrue to the benefit of his or her heirs
and successors.
   (D)   The liability of the city for payments under this chapter may be
insured to the extent permitted by law but to the extent not insured shall be
payable out of the funds and monies of the city.
   (E)   The indemnification provided by this chapter shall not be subject to
retroactive revocation as to any person entitled to indemnification. It shall
not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking
indemnification may be entitled.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit or modify the
authority of the city under state law to defend or indemnify parties or persons
as otherwise provided and permitted by law. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
CHAPTER 20
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 21
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-21-1: Purpose
1-21-2: Non-Exclusivity
1-21-3: Code Hearing Department; Establishment; Jurisdiction
1-21-4: Code Hearing Department; Organization
1-21-5: Notice Of Violation
1-21-6: Service And Notice Of Hearing
1-21-7: Administrative Hearings
1-21-8: Findings, Decision, And Order
1-21-9: Failure To Appear
1-21-10: Nonresident Procedures
1-21-11: Order And Sanction Attach To Property
1-21-12: Administrative Review
1-21-13: Judgment On Findings, Decision, And Order; Enforcement
1-21-14: Impending Suspension Of Driver's License; Notice
1-21-15: Eviction, Rights Of Occupants
1-21-16: Federal Government Contracts Under The Building Code
1-21-17: Schedule Of Fines/Penalties
1-21-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a fair and efficient system of
enforcement of City ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance, through an administrative adjudication of violations of such City
ordinances. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-2: NON-EXCLUSIVITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not preclude the City from using other
methods or proceedings to enforce this Code, including, but not limited to, the
institution of any action in the Circuit Court of Lee County, Illinois, or any
administrative proceeding. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-3: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT; JURISDICTION:
   (A)   Illinois Compiled Statutes ch. 65, Act 5, section 1-2.2-1 et seq.,
"Code Hearing Departments", Illinois Compiled Statutes ch. 65, Act 5, section
11-31.1-1 et seq., "Building Code Violations", and Illinois Compiled Statutes
ch. 625, Act 5, section 11-208.3 "Administrative Adjudication of Violations of
Traffic Regulations Concerning the Standing, Parking or Condition of Vehicles",
as from time to time amended, are hereby adopted in their entirety and any
person charged with the violation of a Municipal ordinance may be prosecuted
under and in accordance with the provisions herein.
   (B)   There is hereby established a Code Hearing Department as an
independent agency of the City, which is authorized to provide for and operate
a system of administrative adjudication, as more fully described herein, which
shall have jurisdiction over the adjudication and enforcement of any violation
of this Code, including but not limited to parking and vehicle registration
violations, Housing, Building and Zoning Code violations, and engineering and
health safety violations, but excluding ordinances for which the potential
penalty described therein includes a period of incarceration, any offense under
the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles, and any reportable offense under section 6-
204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-4: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT; ORGANIZATION:
The Code Hearing Department shall be comprised of the Hearing Officer, the Code
Administrator, any designated member of law enforcement, and any other duly
appointed person or persons deemed necessary for the efficient administration
of the Code Hearing Department, with the following powers and authority:
   (A)   Hearing Officer: All adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by
the Hearing Officer appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council.
      1. Prior to conducting administrative adjudication hearings, the Hearing
Officer shall have successfully completed a formal training program which
includes the following:
         (a) Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
adjudication hearings that they will conduct and preside over;
         (b) Orientation to each subject area of the code for which they may
adjudicate a violation;
         (c) Observation of administrative adjudication hearings; and
         (d) Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
      2. In addition, the Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three (3) years. The Hearing
Officer may not be an inspector or law enforcement officer employed by the
City.
      3. The Hearing Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to:
         (a) Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of an ordinance violation;
         (b) Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony or tangible items at an administrative adjudication hearing, upon the
request of the parties or their representatives;
         (c) Preserve and authenticate the record of the administrative
adjudication hearings, including all exhibits and evidence introduced at the
hearing;
         (d) Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
administrative adjudication hearing, of whether a code violation occurred or
exists. The Hearing Officer's determination shall be in writing and shall
include written findings of fact and law, a decision, and an order including
the fine, penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply; and
         (e) Impose penalties, sanctions, or other such relief consistent with
applicable provisions of this Code and assess costs upon finding a party liable
for the charged violation, except however, that in no event shall the Hearing
Officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in
excess of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation or offense. The
maximum monetary fine under this subsection (A)3(e) shall be exclusive of costs
of enforcement or costs incurred by the City to secure compliance with this
Code and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax
imposed and collected by the City.
   (B)   Code Administrator: The Code Administrator shall either be an employee
of the City appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council, or an independent contractor or agency contracted by the City to
perform such duties as enumerated herein. The Code Administrator is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to:
      1. Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of all
code violations as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
      2. Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter;
      3. Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of liability;
      4. Certify copies of final determinations of all code violations
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation which were issued in accordance with this
chapter or the laws of the State of Illinois, including Illinois Compiled
Statutes ch. 625, Act 5, section 11-208.3 (standing, parking or conditions of
vehicles) as from time to time amended;
      5. Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and those of Illinois Compiled Statutes ch. 625, Act 5, section 6-306.5
(failure to pay fine - suspension);
      6. Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably necessary for the
efficient operation and maintenance of the system of administrative
adjudication hereby established; and
      7. Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection agencies
that may be retained by the City or by requesting the City Attorney to act on
behalf of the City in filing complaints in the Lee County Circuit Court,
seeking judgments for unpaid fines or penalties and pursuing all post-judgment
remedies available under current law.
   (C)   Automation: The Code Administrator is hereby further authorized and
empowered to operate and maintain a computer program for the system of
administrative adjudication hereby established, on a day-to-day basis,
including, but not limited to:
      1. Inputting of violation notice information;
      2. Establishing hearing dates and notice dates;
      3. Recording fine and penalty assessment and payments;
      4. Issuing payment receipts;
      5. Issuing succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final determinations
of liability and issuing notices of impending driver's license suspension as
may be required, in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code. Nothing in this
section is intended to preclude the Code Administrator from including one or
more of the above notices in the same notice report; and
      6. Keeping accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
administrative adjudication hearing, pleas entered and fines and other
penalties assessed and paid.
   (D)   Security: The City may choose to provide security for administrative
adjudication hearings, in order to maintain hearing room decorum and perform
such other duties or acts as may be reasonably required and as directed by the
Hearing Officer or the Code Administrator. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The system of administrative adjudication of any City ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder shall be in accordance with the
following procedures:
   (A)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation including violations of
the City Motor Vehicles and Traffic Code, other than any offense under the
Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under
section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (hereinafter the "City Motor Vehicle
Code") shall be issued by the persons authorized under this Code and shall
contain information and shall be certified and constitute prima facie evidence
of the violation cited as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   All full time, part time, and auxiliary police officers and members of
the Building Department, as well as other specifically authorized individuals
of any City department, shall have the authority to issue violation notices.
   (C)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated under this chapter
or a violation of any section of any City ordinance is authorized to issue a
notice of violation thereof and shall make service thereof as if hereinafter
set forth.
   (D)   The violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the party violating the ordinance, if known.
      2.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      3.   The type and nature of the ordinance violated.
      4.   Vehicle make and state registration number (with respect to city
motor vehicle code violations).
      5.   The names of witnesses to the violation.
      6.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice (with
respect to city motor vehicle code violations)
      7.   The citation/docket number, date, and location of the administrative
hearing on the violation.
      8.   If applicable to the violation in question, the amount of the fine
as set by this Code that may be paid by any party admitting to a violation in
lieu of attendance at a hearing.
   (E)   The date of the hearing shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more
than forty (40) days after the violation is reported. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019;
amd. Ord. 3204, 7-20-2020)
1-21-6: SERVICE AND NOTICE OF HEARING:
   (A)   Service of any violation notice shall be made by the person issuing
such notice:
      1. In the case of violation of the City Motor Vehicle Code, service shall
be made by:
         (a) Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle, unstickered vehicle, or vehicle
violating any compliance regulation;
         (b) Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator, or lessee of
the vehicle, if present; or
         (c) Mailing the notice by first class mail to the person responsible
for the ordinance violation, along with a summons commanding the individual to
appear at the hearing.
      2. In the case of any ordinance violation other than the City Motor
Vehicle Code, service shall be made by:
         (a) A personal service upon a party, the party's employee or agent;
         (b) First class mail along with a summons commanding the owner to
appear at the hearing; or
         (c) If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or
if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the
owner by posting or nailing a copy of the notice on the front door of the
structure where the violation is found.
   (B)   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing said notice by signing his/her name to the
notice at the time of issuance.
   (C)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained
by the Code Administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary course of
business.
   (D)   Any violation notice issued, signed, and served in accordance
herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice. (Ord.
3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-7: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   (A)   An administrative hearing shall be held for the following:
      1. To adjudicate any alleged ordinance violation on its merits.
      2. To contest the validity of a notice of impending driver's license
suspension. The hearing shall be granted to the registered owner or operator of
the "cited vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or
the lessee of the "cited vehicle", 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306,
incorporated herein by reference, and at the date, time and place as is set
forth by the Code Administrator and served upon the registered owner, operator,
or lessee.
   (B)   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer at the
hearing except where absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
individual. Lack of preparation does not constitute cause for a continuance. No
continuance may be granted for more than twenty five (25) days.
   (C)   All administrative hearings shall be recorded and shall culminate in a
determination of liability or non-liability, made by the Hearing Officer, who
shall consider facts and/or testimony without the application of the formal or
technical rules of evidence.
   (D)   Formal rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not
apply to hearings authorized by this chapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may
be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs and all testimony shall be given under
oath or affirmation.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Code.
Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits may be
represented by counsel at their own expense.
   (F)   Administrative adjudication hearings are civil in nature. The City
shall bear the standard of proof to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
the occurrence or existence of a violation of the Code, and a sworn, written
pleading, complaint or citation shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
violation. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-8: FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not a Code violation exists.
   (B)   The determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as
findings, decision and order, including the fine, penalty or action with which
the defendant must comply.
   (C)   The findings, decision and order shall include:
      1. The Hearing Officer's findings of fact.
      2. A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon the
findings of fact.
      3. A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs are
debts due and owing the City.
      4. A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the City within the time specified may result in proceeding with collection
procedures.
      5. A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5, incorporated
herein by reference.
      6. Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-9: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   (A)   If on the dates set for the hearing the alleged violator or his or her
attorney or designee fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the alleged
violator in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence
relevant to the existence of a Code violation. The Hearing Officer may enter a
judgment by default providing for fines and penalties up to the maximum amount
set forth in Code for the violation and for such remedial and abatement
measures as the Hearing Officer determines necessary to correct the violation.
   (B)   Upon finding the alleged violation in default, the Code Administrator
shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class mail, postage prepaid to
the violator who received the notice of an ordinance violation. Service of
notices sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit
in the United States mail.
   (C)   Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a violation to appear
at the time and date designated for a hearing in the case of a violation of the
City Motor Vehicle Code and failure of the registered owner, operator, or
lessee of the "cited vehicle" to pay the fine in full as stated on said notice,
the Code Administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class
mail, postage prepaid to the person who received the notice; or, the registered
owner or operator of the "cited vehicle" at the address as is recorded with the
Secretary of State, and shall be sent to the lessee of the "cited vehicle" at
the address last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle" at the time of the
lease. Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of
the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the Hearing Officer determines that
the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any
time if the petitioner establishes that the Municipality did not provide proper
service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection,
the Hearing Officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any
lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the Municipality as a
result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 3204,
7-20-2020)
1-21-10: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Any nonresident of the City who has been served a violation notice for
violation may contest the alleged violation on its merits without personally
appearing at a hearing by:
   (A)   Requesting and completing, in full, the "Nonresident Request for
Hearing - Nonappearance Form";
   (B)   Acknowledging in the space specified in the form that his or her
personal appearance is waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the
notarized statement filed by him or her and the facts contained in the
violation notice;
   (C)   Filing the form with the Code Administrator postmarked by the 25th of
the month, if the Violation Notice was issued between the first through the
15th day of that month; or postmarked by the 10th of the month, if the
Violation Notice was issued between the 16th of and the last day of the
immediately preceding month. The filing shall be deemed completed if postmarked
by the due dates herein specified;
   (D)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice with the Code Administrator in conjunction
with the violation notice;
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make a decision based upon the facts set
forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident and as
contained in the violation notice;
   (F)   Notice of the determination of the Hearing Officer shall be served
upon the nonresident by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted; and
   (G)   Service of the notice of such determination shall be complete on the
date the notice is deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-11: ORDER AND SANCTION ATTACH TO PROPERTY:
In the case of a Building Code violation only, the order to correct a Building
Code violation and the sanctions imposed by the City as the result of a finding
of a Building Code violation under this section shall attach to the property as
well as to the property owner so that a finding of a Building Code violation
against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the property
to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property takes subject
to the findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-12: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer shall constitute a
final determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of Lee County. The provisions of the Administrative
Review Law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., and the rules
adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern every action for the
judicial review of the findings, decisions, and order of the Hearing Officer
under this section. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-13: JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER; ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., shall be a debt due and
owing the City and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable
law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., may
be sought for a final determination of the code violation, unless stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the
Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
Municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or the Hearing
Officer, shall be a debt due and owing the Municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by the
Hearing Officer pursuant to this subsection, the Municipality shall provide
notice to the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a
hearing before the Hearing Officer to determine whether the defendant has
failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a
hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice
is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   (D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount
of any debt due and owing the Municipality under this section. The lien may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-14: IMPENDING SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE; NOTICE:
   (A)   When a person has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
pursuant to this chapter on ten (10) or more parking violations, the Code
Administrator shall cause a notice of impending driver's license suspension to
be sent in the form as required by the Secretary of State. The notice shall
state that failure to pay the amount owing within forty five (45) days of the
date of the notice will result in the City notifying the Secretary of State
that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings pursuant
to section 6-306.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   If a person sent a notice pursuant to subsection (A) of this section
fails to pay the amount owing within the time stated on the notice, the Code
Administrator may file with the Secretary of State, a certified report, in
accordance with section 6-306.5(c) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, that the
person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings. The Code
Administrator shall assess a twenty dollar ($20.00) filing fee against the
person named in the certified report to reimburse the City for the expense of
preparing and filing the certified report with the Secretary of State.
   (C)   A person named in a certified report filed pursuant to subsection (B)
of this section may, within twenty one (21) days of the date of the notice sent
by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 6-306.5(b) of the Illinois
Vehicle Code; file with the Code Administrator a written statement and
supporting documentation to challenge the report; provided, however, the
grounds for such challenge shall be limited to: 1) the person not having been
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or vehicles receiving ten (10) or more
parking violations notices on the date or dates such notices were issued; 2)
the person having already paid the fine and penalty for the ten (10) or more
violations indicated on the report; 3) or the person not having accumulated ten
(10) or more final determinations of parking violation liability. The Code
Administrator shall send notice of the decision on the challenge to the report
after receipt thereof.
   (D)   If a person named in a certified report has paid the previously
reported fine or penalty or if the report is determined by the Code
Administrator to be in error, the Code Administrator shall notify the Secretary
of State in accordance with section 6-306.5(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code. A
certified copy of such notification shall be given, upon request and at no
charge, to the person named therein.
   (E)   An administrative hearing to contest an impending suspension or
suspension may be had upon filing a written request with the Secretary of
State. Such hearing shall not be a forum to re- adjudicate the findings of fact
and law issued by the Hearing Officer. The filing fee for this hearing shall be
twenty dollars ($20.00), to be paid at the time the request is made. The City
shall reimburse the Secretary of State for all reasonable costs incurred by the
Secretary as a result of filing a certified report, including but not limited
to the costs of providing the required notice and the costs incurred by the
Secretary in any hearing conducted with respect to the report and any appeal
from such a hearing. In the event the owner is found eligible for suspension
such owner shall reimburse the City for all of the foregoing costs. (Ord. 3143,
6-3-2019)
1-21-15: EVICTION, RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS:
In the case of a Building Code violation, no action for eviction, abatement of
a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or other similar proceeding shall be
threatened or instituted against an occupant of a dwelling solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a code violation hearing. (Ord.
3143, 6-3-2019)
1-21-16: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS UNDER THE BUILDING CODE:
   (A)   A person who contracts with the Federal government or any of its
agencies, including, without limitation, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct Municipal Health and Safety
Code violations.
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred one dollars
($501.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 3143, 6-3-
2019)
1-21-17: SCHEDULE OF FINES/PENALTIES:
For the violation of any City ordinance, fines and penalties shall be as
established elsewhere within this Code. (Ord. 3143, 6-3-2019)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation Of Commission
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Powers Of Commission
2-1-4: Alternate Members
2-1-1: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
A plan commission consisting of ten (10) members shall be and the same is
hereby created. The mayor and the president of the board of local improvements
shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the commission. (Ord. 794, 10-7-
1974)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the plan commission shall be appointed by the mayor and shall
serve with the consent of the council. Each member of the present plan
commission is hereby reappointed for the term for which such member has
heretofore been appointed by the mayor and the city council. Successors to the
members so appointed are to be appointed for terms of four (4) years. One
member of the plan commission shall be selected as chairman of the plan
commission. The chairman shall be selected after recommendation by majority
vote of the members of the plan commission and shall be appointed after
obtaining approval by the mayor and consent of the city council. The term of
chairman shall be for a period of one year unless the term such member is
serving is less than one year in which event he shall be appointed for the
balance of his term as a member on the plan commission. The chairman shall
preside at all meetings of the plan commission and shall designate a member of
the plan commission to act as chairman in his absence. (Ord. 794, 10-7-1974)
2-1-3: POWERS OF COMMISSION:
The plan commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the council a comprehensive plan of public
improvements looking to the present and future development of the city, such
plan after its adoption by the council, to be known as the official plan of the
city. The commission may thereafter, from time to time, recommend any changes
in the official plan. The plan may include reasonable requirements in reference
to streets, alleys and public grounds in unsubdivided lands within the
corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits and not included in any
city, village, or incorporated town, such requirements to be effective whenever
such lands shall be subdivided after the adoption of the plan.
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the council and board of local
improvements, from time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance
of the official plan.
   (C)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan. (1950 Code)
2-1-4: ALTERNATE MEMBERS:
   (A)   The mayor with the approval of the city council may appoint two (2)
alternate members of the plan commission. The mayor shall designate a first
alternate and second alternate member. Alternate members shall serve in the
order of their designation.
   (B)   Term of the alternate members of the plan commission shall be for four
(4) years.
   (C)   When a regular appointed member is absent for any reason from a
meeting of the plan commission, an alternate member shall have such powers and
may exercise such duties as a regularly appointed member. (Ord. 1025, 1-7-1980)
   (D)   When there is a vacancy of a regular member and a new appointment is
to be made, the alternate member who has been designated first alternate shall
then be appointed as a regular member. When the first alternate member is
appointed as a regular member, the second alternate member shall become the
first alternate member. The second alternate member shall become the first
alternate member and the new appointment shall be the second alternate member.
(Ord. 1113, 11-2-1981)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Airport Established
2-2-2: Management Of Airport; Airport Manager
2-2-3: Airport Board; Membership
2-2-4: Vacancies; No Compensation
2-2-5: Officers; Rules
2-2-6: Finances
2-2-7: Reports Of Airport Board
2-2-8: City Not Liable For Debts
2-2-1: AIRPORT ESTABLISHED:
The Dixon Airport, Charles R. Walgreen Field shall be located on the following
described premises, as supplemented from time to time by acquisitions of real
estate made by the city council for Dixon Airport purposes:
Part of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) and part of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/
4) of Section 3, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal
Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as follows: Beginning at
the Northeast corner of the said Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section 3;
thence southerly on the East Line of said Section 3 a distance of 2504.0 feet
to the Northerly Right of Way line of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway
Company; thence westerly on the said Northerly Right of Way line a distance of
4651.30 feet to a point 2000 feet west of the East line of the said Southwest
Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section 3; thence Northerly parallel with the said East
line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a distance of 848.8 feet; thence
Northeasterly at an angle of 99° 52' measured counterclockwise from the last
described course a distance of 2029.8 feet to the said East line of the
Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4); thence Northerly on the said East line of the
Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a distance of 546.6 feet thence westerly
perpendicular to the last described course a distance of 396.0 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the said East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a
distance of 528.0 feet; thence easterly perpendicular to the last described
course a distance of 396.0 feet to the said East line of the Southwest Quarter
(SW 1/4); thence extending easterly parallel with the North line of the said
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) a distance of 161.04 feet; thence Northerly parallel
with the west line of the said Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) a distance of 330.0
feet to the North line of the said Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4); thence easterly
on the said North line of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) a distance of 2483.06
feet to the said point of beginning.
(Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-2: MANAGEMENT OF AIRPORT; AIRPORT MANAGER:
The Dixon Airport shall be under the jurisdiction and control of the city
manager. The city manager may appoint an airport manager, who shall report to
the director of public works. The qualifications of the airport manager shall
be as prescribed from time to time by the city council. (Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-3: AIRPORT BOARD; MEMBERSHIP:
The city council shall appoint an airport board to advise the city council and
the city manager on all matters relating to the Dixon Airport. The airport
board shall be advisory only. The airport board shall make no purchase, lease,
agreement, expenditure, sale of property or personnel decision without the
prior consent of the city council. The airport board shall consist of five (5)
members who, excepting in case of appointments to fill vacancies, shall hold
office for three (3) years and until their successors are appointed. The mayor,
with the consent and approval of the city council, on or before January 1 of
each year shall appoint members to succeed the members whose terms expire. The
mayor, with the consent and approval of the city council, may remove any member
at any time. (Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-4: VACANCIES; NO COMPENSATION:
Vacancies on the airport board, caused by removals, resignations, death or
otherwise, shall be reported to the city council and shall be filled in like
manner as the original appointments. No member of the airport board shall
receive compensation for his or her services as such. (Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-5: OFFICERS; RULES:
The airport board shall, from its members, elect a president and a secretary,
and shall make and adopt such rules, bylaws and regulations for their own
guidance and action as may to them seem expedient and not inconsistent with the
best interests of the Dixon Airport, and which shall not be in conflict with
any of the provisions of this code or other laws and policies of the city.
(Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-6: FINANCES:
The city council shall have control of the expenditures of all monies
collected, levied or donated to the credit of the Dixon Airport fund, subject
to the recommendation of the airport board. All monies received for the Dixon
Airport shall be deposited in the treasury of the city to the credit of the
Dixon Airport, and the treasurer shall keep the funds separate and apart from
any other monies of the city. The treasurer may draw upon the Dixon Airport
fund solely for properly authorized expenditures by the city council or by the
city manager in accordance with the city's procurement policy. The treasurer
shall provide the airport board with a monthly financial statement of the Dixon
Airport fund. (Ord. 2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-7: REPORTS OF AIRPORT BOARD:
The airport board shall render written reports of each meeting to the city
council or as may be further requested by the mayor from time to time. (Ord.
2985, 12-7-2015)
2-2-8: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DEBTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as any obligation or liability of
the city to levy any tax or expend any city money, or assume any liability to
pay any existing or future encumbrances of the foregoing described real estate,
or to pay any obligation created by the airport board or any indebtedness or
obligation created or arising on account of the Dixon Airport. (Ord. 2985, 12-
7-2015)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-3-1: How Constituted
2-3-2: Appointment
2-3-3: President
2-3-4: Meetings
2-3-5: Duties
2-3-1: HOW CONSTITUTED:
The board of local improvements shall be constituted as required by the laws of
the state. (1950 Code)
2-3-2: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year the council shall appoint two (2) of its
members as members of the board of local improvements. (1950 Code)
2-3-3: PRESIDENT:
The mayor shall be a member and president of the board of local improvements.
(1950 Code)
2-3-4: MEETINGS:
The board of local improvements shall meet upon the call of the mayor or any
two (2) of its members. Forty eight (48) hours' notice of such meeting shall be
given to each member; provided, that a meeting may be held when all members are
present without notice. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
2-3-5: DUTIES:
All ordinances for local improvement to be paid for wholly or in part by
special assessment or special taxation shall originate with the board of local
improvements. The board shall perform such duties as are provided by the
statutes of the state concerning local improvements, special assessments and
special taxation 1 . (1950 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-7.
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment
2-4-2: Coordinator
2-4-3: Functions
2-4-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-4-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-4-6: Emergency Action
2-4-7: Compensation
2-4-8: Reimbursement By State
2-4-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-4-10: Oath
2-4-11: Office
2-4-12: Appropriations; Levy Of Taxes
2-4-13: Orders, Rules And Regulations
2-4-14: Local Disaster Declarations
2-4-15: Limitations
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created within the city an entity to be known as the emergency
services and disaster agency, hereinafter referred to as the ESDA. This entity
shall be responsible for the coordination of all emergency management programs
within its jurisdiction and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, and the state and federal government in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois emergency management act of 1992 1  (hereinafter
"the act").
The purpose of the ESDA shall be the coordination of emergency services
functions which may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair or
alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or technological cause.
The ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members as may be
selected by the coordinator.
All emergency services functions of the ESDA shall at all times be in
accordance with the provisions of the act and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-4-2: COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of the city ESDA shall be appointed by the mayor with the
consent of the council and shall serve until removed by the same.
The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the mayor, as provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation or death or inability to serve as the
coordinator, the mayor or any person designated by him shall be and act as
coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
941, 4-3-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-3: FUNCTIONS:
The city ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the city as shall be
prescribed in and by the state emergency operations plan, and programs, orders,
rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Illinois emergency
management agency and/or by the governor, and in addition, shall perform such
duties outside the corporate limits as may be required under mutual aid
agreements with any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-
municipality entered into as provided in the act. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the city ESDA organization may be designated as members
of a mobile support team created by the director of the state of Illinois
emergency management agency or by the governor as provided by law.
The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the coordinator
of the city ESDA organization.
Personnel of a mobile support team who are city employees or officers, while on
duty pursuant to a call to duty by the governor or state director or while
engaged in regularly scheduled training exercises, whether within or without
the state, shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights
and immunities incidental to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall receive
compensation from the state as provided under the act.
Personnel of a mobile support team who suffer disease, injury or death arising
out of or in the course of emergency duty, shall for the purposes of benefits
under the workers' compensation act or workers' occupational disease act only,
be deemed to be employees of the state of Illinois.
All personnel of mobile support teams shall, while on duty under such call, be
reimbursed by the state of Illinois for all actual and necessary travel and
subsistence expenses, as provided in the act. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator may, in collaboration with other public agencies within his
immediate vicinity, develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements
with other political subdivisions within this state for reciprocal disaster
response and recovery assistance in case a disaster is too great to be dealt
with unassisted. Any mutual aid agreements shall be consistent with the state
emergency operations plan and state emergency management program. No such
mutual aid agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the
council and by the other political subdivision or subdivisions as provided by
law. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from explosion of atomic or other
means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or
from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, it shall be the duty of the city ESDA to cooperate fully
with the Illinois emergency management agency and with the governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
2-4-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if called
for training by the state director of the Illinois emergency management agency,
shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is
attached to the position held. Members who are not such city employees or
officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the council. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of the Illinois
emergency management agency, compensation for services and expenses of members
of a mobile support team while serving outside the city in response to a call
by the governor or state director of the Illinois emergency management agency
or other political subdivision pursuant to a mutual aid agreement as provided
by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to ESDA
activities as provided by law. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-
2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The council may, upon recommendation of the city coordinator of ESDA, authorize
any purchase or contracts and incur obligations necessary to place it in a
position to effectively combat such disasters in order to protect the health
and safety of persons and to protect property, and to provide emergency
assistance to victims of those disasters.
In event of enemy caused or other disaster, the city coordinator of ESDA is
authorized, on behalf of the city, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as authorized by
the act, provided, that if the council meets at such time, the city coordinator
shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the city ESDA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                          , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Dixon ESDA organization, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.
(Ord. 941, 4-3-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-11: OFFICE:
The mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building, or elsewhere, as
may be provided for by the council for the city ESDA as its office. (Ord. 941,
4-3-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-12: APPROPRIATIONS; LEVY OF TAXES:
The council may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax to exceed five
cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-16; however, that amount collectible under such levy
shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 1647, 2-
18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-13: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall have the authority to promulgate orders, rules and
regulations upon the advice of the ESDA coordinator for the purpose of
emergency management and in times of disaster, so long as such orders, rules
and regulations are not inconsistent with and permissible under the state
emergency operations plan, programs, orders, rules and regulations of the
Illinois emergency management agency and/or the governor, or the act.
The ESDA shall execute and enforce such orders, rules and regulations as may be
made by the governor under the authority of the act. The ESDA shall have
available for inspection at its office all orders, rules and regulations made
by the governor, or under the governor's authority and which have been provided
by the Illinois emergency management agency. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-4-14: LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS:
A local disaster may be declared only by the mayor, or his interim emergency
successor, as provided in the emergency interim executive succession act 1 . It
shall expire not later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
corporate authorities after the state of emergency is declared. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the city
clerk. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; 2020
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275/2 et seq.
2-4-15: LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with the
course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that actions otherwise authorized
by this chapter or other laws may be taken when necessary to mitigate imminent
or existing danger to public health or safety.
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster.
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state and political subdivision
emergency operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for
performance of functions related to emergency management.
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the governor to proclaim
martial law or exercise any other powers vested in him under the constitution,
statutes, or common law of this state, independent of or in conjunction with
any provisions of the Illinois emergency management act; or prohibit any
contract or association pursuant to article VII, section 10 of the Illinois
constitution. (Ord. 1647, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 5
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Establishment Of Library And Reading Room
2-5-2: Library Tax Fund
2-5-3: Board Of Directors; Appointment
2-5-4: Officers Of Board Of Directors
2-5-5: Annual Report Of Library Board
2-5-6: Defacing Library Property
2-5-7: Injuring Grounds Or Buildings
2-5-8: Failure To Return Books
2-5-9: Penalty
2-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIBRARY AND READING ROOM:
There shall be established and maintained in the city a public library and
reading room for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city, and such
persons residing outside of the city as may desire to use the same upon the
terms and conditions prescribed by the board of directors hereinafter provided
for. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-5-2: LIBRARY TAX FUND:
The council shall in each year levy a tax not to exceed the amount authorized
by the statutes of the state. In such case made and provided, the same to be
levied and collected in like manner with the general taxes of the city and to
be known as the library fund. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
2-5-3: BOARD OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT:
The mayor shall, with the approval of the council, appoint a board of nine (9)
directors for the public library and reading room, to be chosen from the
citizens at large with reference to their fitness for such office. They shall
hold office one- third (1/3) for one year, one-third (1/3) for two (2) years,
and one-third (1/3) for three (3) years from the first day of July following
their appointment, and at their first regular meeting shall cast lots for their
respective terms, and annually thereafter the mayor shall, before the first day
of July of each year, appoint as before three (3) directors to take the place
of the retiring directors, who shall hold office for three (3) years and until
their successors are appointed as aforesaid, and the mayor may, with the
consent of the council, remove any director for misconduct or neglect of duty.
Vacancies in the board shall be filled as original appointments, and no
director shall receive compensation as such. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-
2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-5-4: OFFICERS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The directors shall elect one of their members as president and secretary and
such other officers as they may deem necessary; they shall make and adopt such
bylaws, rules and regulations for their own guidance and for the government of
the library and reading room as they may deem expedient; they shall have
exclusive control of all expenditures of money to the credit of the library
fund, and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms and
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose; provided, that all
money received for such library shall be deposited in the treasury of the city
to the credit of the library fund and shall be kept separate and apart from
other monies of the city, and shall be drawn upon by the proper officers of the
city upon the properly authenticated vouchers of the library board. The board
shall have the power to appoint a suitable librarian and necessary assistants,
fix their compensation and have the power of removal. They may accept any
donations of money, books or property made by any person, and shall hold the
same under the terms of the donation in trust for the purposes herein set
forth. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
2-5-5: ANNUAL REPORT OF LIBRARY BOARD:
   (A)   The board of directors shall make, within 60 days after the expiration
of each fiscal year of the city, a report of the condition of their trust on
the last day of the fiscal year. It shall contain (1) an itemized statement of
the various sums of money received from the library fund and from other
sources; (2) an itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which those
sums of money have been expended; (3) a statement of the number of books and
periodicals available for use, and the number and character thereof circulated;
(4) a statement of the real and personal property acquired by legacy, purchase,
gift or otherwise; (5) a statement of the character of any extensions of
library service which have been undertaken; (6) (blank); (7) a statement as to
the amount of accumulations and the reasons therefor; (8) a statement as to any
outstanding liabilities including those for bonds still outstanding or amounts
due for judgments, settlements, liability insurance, or for amounts due under a
certificate of the board; (9) any other statistics, information and suggestions
that may be of interest. A report shall also be filed, at the same time, with
the Illinois State Library.
   (B)   The board of directors of a municipal library shall also submit to the
council, along with the Illinois State Library, a statement of financial
requirements of the library for the ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the
appropriation of the corporate authority, and of the amount of money which, in
the judgment of the board of directors, will be necessary to levy for library
purposes in the next annual tax levy ordinance. This statement shall be
submitted no less than 60 days prior to when the tax levy must be certified
under subsection (b) of Section 18-15 of the Property Tax Code. (1950 Code;
amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
2-5-6: DEFACING LIBRARY PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully or maliciously cut, write upon, injure, deface, tear
or destroy any book, newspaper, plate, picture or engraving or other property
of the library. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-5-7: INJURING GROUNDS OR BUILDINGS:
No person shall wilfully or maliciously commit any injury to the grounds,
buildings or fixtures, or other property of the library. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013;
amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-5-8: FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS:
No person shall fail to return any book belonging to the library according to
the requirements of the bylaws, rules and regulations made and adopted by the
directors of the library for the government thereof. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-5-9: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and shall also be responsible
for the actual replacement costs of the materials defaced (violation of section
2-5-6 of this chapter) or not returned (violation of section
2-5-8 of this chapter). (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 6
HOSPITAL BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Hospital Establishment
2-6-2: Board Of Directors; Appointment
2-6-2-1: Eligibility For Office
2-6-3: Terms Of Office
2-6-4: Vacancies
2-6-5: Organization
2-6-6: Donations
2-6-7: Appropriations
2-6-1: HOSPITAL ESTABLISHMENT 1 :
There is established and maintained by the city, a public hospital for the use
and benefit of the inhabitants of the city, upon the south one hundred fifty
feet (150') of lots four, five and six, in block one, of the original town (now
city) of Dixon, Illinois. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-22-1 et seq.
2-6-2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT:
The number of directors of the hospital shall be ten (10). The mayor of the
city, and one councilman selected by the city council, and two (2) current
directors of the hospital (other than directors whose terms are due to expire
in less than 1 year) as selected by the board of directors of the hospital,
shall comprise a nominating committee. Said committee shall meet during the
month of December of each year and shall select one nominee for the office of
director for each such post scheduled to be vacated by the expiration of the
term of a current director on the next succeeding January 1. A nominee to be
selected shall receive at least three (3) affirmative votes from the selection
committee. The slate of nominees shall then be presented to the city council of
the city for individual approval by a majority of the council. Nominees so
approved shall then enter upon the duties of their office on the next
succeeding January 1 following the date of their approval or upon the date of
the approval by the city council if such date shall be subsequent thereto. In
the event a majority of the council shall fail to approve any nominee, the
nominating committee shall hold such subsequent meetings as shall be necessary
and submit additional nominees until all offices of directors of said hospital
shall be filled. (Ord. 1291, 8-5-1985; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
2-6-2-1: ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE:
All qualified persons not under legal age or other disability which would
prevent their performance of duties and who reside within the city or within a
twenty five (25) mile radius thereof shall be eligible to serve as a director
of said hospital. There shall be no discrimination in the selection of
directors because of race, color, creed, sex (including pregnancy, sexual
orientation or gender identity), national origin, disability, age or marital
status. One licensed physician otherwise qualified to serve as a director may
be eligible to serve in the capacity of a director. (Ord. 963, 8-7-1978; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
2-6-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The directors shall hold office for three (3) years, from the first day of
January following their appointment, and until their successors are appointed.
The mayor may, by and with the consent of the council, remove any director for
misconduct and neglect of duty. (Ord. 963, 8-7-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
2-6-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies in the board of directors, occasioned by removal, resignation or
otherwise, shall be reported to the council, and shall be filled in like manner
as original appointments except that said appointments shall be effective from
the date specified by the city council. The person so appointed shall serve the
remainder of the unexpired term. No director shall directly or indirectly
receive compensation for services. Provided, however, in the event two-thirds
(2/3) or more of the offices of the directors of the hospital are vacated,
whether by reason of removal, resignation or any reason whatsoever, singularly
or in combination, in any one year, the mayor shall, with the approval of the
council, appoint all directors for the said year notwithstanding section
2-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1291, 8-5-1985; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
2-6-5: ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   The directors shall, after appointment, meet and organize by the
election of one of their members president and one of their members secretary,
and by the election of such officers as they may deem necessary.
   (B)   They shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their
own guidance and for the government of the hospital as may be expedient, and
have the exclusive control and management of the hospital and all its affairs.
   (C)   The board of directors shall at least once each year make an annual
report to the city council of their acts and doings and show how all monies
received by them are expended. (Ord. 963, 8-7-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
2-6-6: DONATIONS:
Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate for the benefit of the hospital, shall have the right to vest the title
of the money or real estate so donated in the board of directors created under
this chapter, to be held and controlled by the board, when accepted, according
to the terms of the deed, gift, devise or bequest of the property; and as to
such property the board shall be held and considered to be special trustees.
(1950 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-6-7: APPROPRIATIONS:
   (A)   So long as the council shall contribute or appropriate annually at
least five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the purposes of the hospital, if
called upon by the board of directors so to do, to be spent under the direction
of the board, as required by resolution or ordinance of the council, the
council shall, on or before January 1 following such contribution or
appropriation, approve directors to fill all vacancies on the board in such
year, whether from expiration of term or other cause, pursuant to sections
2-6-2 and
2-6-4 of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that the council shall neglect or refuse to make such
contribution or appropriation in any year, when called upon so to do by the
board of directors, the council shall thereby forfeit its right to fill such
vacancies as may exist on January 1 following such neglect or refusal, and also
the right, in the absence of later contribution as aforesaid during such year,
to fill other vacancies.
   (C)   In the event of such forfeiture, or if for any reason the council
fails to approve vacancies on the board, the circuit court of Lee County may,
on the chancery side thereof, on a bill in chancery filed by any number of
citizens of the city, not less than ten (10), fill such vacancies.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, a year shall be considered as
extending from January 1 of one year to and including January 1 of the
succeeding year. (Ord. 963, 8-7-1978; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 7
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Establishment; Organization
2-7-2: Meetings; Records
2-7-3: Jurisdiction
2-7-4: Council Action
2-7-5: Notice Of Public Hearing
2-7-6: Change Of Zoning
2-7-7: Miscellaneous
2-7-8: Appeals And Review
2-7-9: Stay Of Proceedings
2-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   There is hereby established a zoning board of appeals. The board shall
consist of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the
council. The members of the board shall serve respectively for the following
terms:
One for one year;
One for two (2) years;
One for three (3) years;
One for four (4) years;
One for five (5) years;
One for six (6) years;
One for seven (7) years.
   (B)   The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of
five (5) years. Vacancies shall be filled by the mayor, subject to confirmation
by the council, for the unexpired term. Members may be removed by the mayor for
cause after written charges have been filed and after a public hearing has been
held if demanded by the member so charged.
   (C)   One of the members of the said board shall be designated by the mayor,
with the consent of the council, as chairman of the board and shall hold office
as chairman until a successor is appointed. The chairman, or in his absence,
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
   (D)   The board shall select one member as secretary to keep minutes and
maintain the records of the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-7-2: MEETINGS; RECORDS:
All meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the board may determine. There shall be at least fifteen (15)
days but not more than thirty (30) days' notice of the time and place of such
meeting published in a paper of general circulation in the city, said notice to
contain a statement of the particular purpose of such meeting and a brief
description of the location of the property under consideration at such
meeting.
All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings; showing the vote of each member upon every question, or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case of requested variation, and the reasons for granting
or denying such variation shall be specified. Every rule, regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall immediately be filed in the office of the
board and shall be a public record.
The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure, a copy of which and all
recommendations thereto shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
The minutes of the board shall be open to public examination at reasonable
hours.
Expenses incurred by the zoning board of appeals are to be itemized and shall
be borne by the city. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
2-7-3: JURISDICTION:
The zoning board of appeals as herein created is a body of limited powers. It
shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision
or determination, made by the administrative official charged with the
enforcement of the zoning title 1 .
The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the extent and
in the manner that the board may decide to be fitting and proper in the
premises, and to that end the board shall also have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
The board shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which
it is required to pass under the zoning title.
When a property owner or his agent shows that a strict application of the terms
of the zoning title relating to the use, construction or alteration of
buildings or structures or the use of land imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the board may authorize such
variations of the strict application of the terms of the zoning title as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under
the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
provisions of the zoning title, or in the following instances:
   (A)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record prior to the date
of passage of the zoning title. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
   (B)   To permit a front yard, a side yard, or a rear yard less than that
required by the zoning title but such variation shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the depth of the front yard, or the depth of the rear yard, or the
width of a side yard, as required by the zoning title. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955;
amd. Ord. 394, 11-6-1962; Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (C)   To permit a building to exceed the height limit by not more than ten
percent (10%) of the height limit established by the zoning title. (Ord. 120,
8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (D)   To permit the use and the creation of a lot less in area by not more
than ten percent (10%) of the lot area required by the zoning title; provided
however, that no lot can be created pursuant to this section in a subdivision
platted after July 1, 1994. (Ord. 1837, 8-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
   (E)   To permit the use of a lot less in width by not more than fifteen
percent (15%) of the lot width as required by the zoning title.
   (F)   To interpret the provisions of the zoning title where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
fixing the several districts, which map is made a part of the zoning title.
(Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (G)   To permit the alteration or conversion of a one-family dwelling in any
one-family dwelling district (R-1, R-2 or R-3) into a two-family dwelling under
the following conditions:
      1. The exterior character of the building shall not be significantly
changed.
      2. The exterior dimensions of the building shall not be increased.
      3. Each dwelling unit in the building shall have its own separate
entrance and be provided with hot and cold running water; a bathroom including
a tub or shower, sink and flush toilet; and a kitchen equipped with sink.
      4. Each dwelling unit shall comply with the requirements of the building
code 1 as to construction, minimum room sizes and room count.
      5. The conversion will not alter the essential character of the property
or the neighborhood. (Ord. 365, 8-22-1961; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to the zoning title the
board shall, before granting any variation in a specific case, first determine
and make a finding of fact that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, increase the danger of fire or endanger the
public safety, unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the building
inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
authorized by this chapter to render decision. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 1 of this code.
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
2-7-4: COUNCIL ACTION:
   (A)   No variation in any specific case shall be made by the council without
a hearing by the zoning board of appeals as required herein nor without a
report thereof having been made by the board to the council, and every such
report shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the reasons for the
report. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (B)   Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals, the council, without
further public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may refer
the report back to the board for further consideration. Any proposed variation
which fails to receive the approval of the board of appeals shall not be passed
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the elected members of the
council. In making any variations the council shall be governed by the same
considerations and restrictions as the variations in particular instances under
section
2-7-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 1882, 6-5-1995; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
2-7-5: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
Notice of the public hearing of the zoning board of appeals to consider a
petitioner's application for a proposed variation shall be given in the
following manner:
   (A)   The petitioner shall publish notice of the time and place of the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not more than
thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date.
Said notice shall contain the common address and the legal description of the
subject property, a brief statement describing the proposed variation, the
current zoning classification of the subject property, the sections of this
code under which the zoning variation is allowed and the time, date and place
of the public hearing. Proof of publication must be provided prior to or at the
time of the zoning board of appeals hearing by submitting to the secretary of
the zoning board of appeals a certificate of publication issued by the
newspaper publishing said notice.
   (B)   Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the hearing, the petitioner shall also notify all legal owners of record of
all properties located within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary lines of
the subject property. This notice shall be given as follows:
      1.   Delivery In Person: By delivering notice to the record owner
personally; or
      2.   Delivery By Mail: By depositing the notice in the United States
mail, enclosed in an envelope, plainly addressed to the legal record owner at
his residence, certified mail, return receipt requested, with postage fully
prepaid;
      3.   Matter Of Proof: Proof of service of the notice required under this
subsection (B) shall be given as follows:
         (a)   In case of service by personal delivery:
            (1)   By written acknowledgment signed by the person personally
served; or
            (2)   By an affidavit of service of the person who made delivery.
         (b)   In case of service by mail, by certified receipt.
      4.   Filing Of Proof: Proof of service of notice under this subsection
(B) must be filed with the secretary of the zoning board of appeals prior to or
at the time of hearing of the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 1718, 2-16-1993;
amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-7-6: CHANGE OF ZONING:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the zoning
board of appeals the power or authority to alter or change the zoning title 1
or any use district made a part of the zoning map, such power and authority
being reserved to the council, and the board shall not have any power or
authority with respect to any alterations or change of the zoning title except
to make recommendations to the council in such specific cases as may properly
come before the board. (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code for zoning.
2-7-7: MISCELLANEOUS:
No order for a variance permitting the erection or alteration of a building
shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for the erection
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of the permit.
No order for a variance permitting a use of a building or premises shall be
valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such use is established
within such period; provided, however, that where such use permitted is
dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such order shall
continue in force and effect if a building permit for the erection or
alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-7-8: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the officer charged with enforcement of the
zoning title or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city
concerning the interpretation of the title, may take an appeal to the zoning
board of appeals.
The appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the zoning
board of appeals by general rules adopted by it, and shall be taken by filing
with the clerk and with the zoning board of appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and exhibits as are
reasonably necessary. The appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the
zoning board of appeals. The clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board all of
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
(Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-7-9: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   The appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the building inspector certifies to the zoning board of
appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order which may be granted by the zoning board of appeals
or by a court of record on application, which notice to the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and all due causes shown.
   (B)   The zoning board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time and place for
the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons appealing
and to the officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear and decide the
appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearing, parties of interest may appear
in person, by agent or attorney.
   (C)   The zoning board of appeals may reverse or affirm wholly or in part,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as in its
opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have all powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (D)   All final administrative decisions of the board under this chapter
shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the
"administrative review act" of the state, approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto.
The term "administrative decision" is defined as in section 1 of the
"administrative review law". (Ord. 120, 8-2-1955; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 8
AIRPORT BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Board Created; Powers
2-8-2: Members; Organization
2-8-3: Meetings; Rules And Regulations
2-8-4: Decision Of Board
2-8-5: Appeals
2-8-6: Judicial Review
2-8-1: BOARD CREATED; POWERS:
There is hereby created a board of appeals to have and exercise the following
powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the zoning administration in the enforcement of the
airport zoning regulations.
   (B)   To hear and decide any special exceptions to the terms of the airport
zoning regulations upon which such board may be required to pass under such
regulations.
   (C)   To hear and decide special variances in accordance with the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-8-2: MEMBERS; ORGANIZATION:
The board of appeals shall consist of five (5) members, each to be appointed by
the council for a term of three (3) years and until his successor is duly
appointed and qualified, one of whom shall be designated chairman, and one of
whom shall be designated vice chairman. Members shall be removable by the
authority for cause, upon written charges and after notice and opportunity for
public hearing before the authority. The clerk shall act as secretary of the
board of appeals. No compensation shall be paid the members of the board,
except reimbursement of actual expenses incurred in the fulfillment of their
duties. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-8-3: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall adopt rules for its governance, procedure, and other authorized
matters, consistent with and in harmony with the provisions of the airport
zoning regulations. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other time as the board may determine. The chairman, or in
his absence the vice chairman, may administer oaths or affirmations and issue
subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board
shall be public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
board and shall be a public record. The office of the authority shall be the
office of the clerk. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
2-8-4: DECISIONS OF BOARD:
The board of appeals shall make written findings of fact and conclusions of law
giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts
in reversing, or affirming or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or
determination which comes before it under the provisions of the airport zoning
regulations.
All questions and matters presented to the board of appeals for their
determination shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members of the
board. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-8-5: APPEALS:
   (A)   Any person, including the department of aeronautics of the state and
the civil aeronautics administration, or any governing body of a political
subdivision, if of the opinion that a decision of the zoning administration is
an improper application of these regulations of concern to such governing body,
may appeal to the board of appeals.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time, as
provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the agency from which the
appeal is taken and with the board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The zoning administration shall forthwith transmit to the board all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the zoning administration certifies to the board, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate a stay would, in its opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
order of the board and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of appeals, give
public notices and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The board may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify, the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement,
decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all
the powers of the zoning administration. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-8-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   (A)   Any person, including the department of aeronautics, on behalf of and
in the name of the state, aggrieved by any decision of the board of appeals, or
any governing body of a political subdivision which is of the opinion that a
decision of the board of appeals is erroneous, after first exhausting the
remedies provided by the board, may present to the circuit court of the county,
a verified petition setting forth that the decision is erroneous, in whole or
in part, and specifying the grounds of that error. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the decision is filed in
the office of the board. Any judicial review sought by the department of
aeronautics, on behalf of and in the name of the state under this section,
shall be without prejudice to action by the department under section 16 of the
airport zoning act.
   (B)   Anything in the airport zoning regulations to the contrary
notwithstanding judicial review proceedings under this chapter shall be
governed by the "administrative review act" of the state.
   (C)   Upon presentation of the petition hereinbefore mentioned, the court
may allow a writ of certiorari directed to the board of appeals to review such
decision of the board. The allowance of the writ shall not stay proceedings
upon the decision appealed from, but the court may, on application, on notice
to the board, and on due cause shown, grant a supersedeas order.
   (D)   The board of appeals shall not be required to return the original
papers acted upon by it, but it shall be sufficient to return certified or
sworn copies thereof, or of such portions thereof as may be called for by the
writ. The return shall concisely set forth such other facts as may be pertinent
and material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from and shall be
verified.
   (E)   The court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to affirm, modify, or set
aside the decision brought up for review, in whole or in part, and if need be,
to order further proceedings by the board of appeals. The findings of fact of
the board, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be presumed to be
correct, and no objection to a decision of the board shall be considered by the
court unless objection shall have been urged, unless there were reasonable
grounds for failure to do so.
   (F)   Costs shall not be allowed against the board, unless it appears to the
court that it acted with gross negligence, in bad faith, or with malice, in
making the decision appealed from.
   (G)   In any case where these regulations, although generally reasonable,
are held by a court to interfere with the use of enjoyment of a particular
structure or parcel of land to such an extent, or to be so onerous in their
application to such structure or parcel of land as to constitute a taking or
deprivation of that property in violation of the constitution of this state or
the constitution of the United States, such holding shall not affect the
application of such regulations to other structures and parcels of land 1 .
(Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 620 ILCS 25/27.
CHAPTER 9
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-9-1: Establishment Of Board
2-9-2: Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-9-3: Secretary; Duties
2-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
At a special election on April 17, 1951, the voters of the city approved the
adoption of the provisions of an act, entitled, "an act to provide for the
appointment of a board of fire and police commissioners in all cities, villages
and incorporated towns of this state", as amended and which prescribes the
powers and duties of the board 1 . (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2-1 et seq.
2-9-2: APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of fire and police commissioners appointed by
the mayor with the consent of the council. Said board shall consist of three
(3) members, whose terms of office shall be: one for one year, one for two (2)
years, and one for three (3) years. Each commissioner hereafter appointed shall
serve a term of three (3) years and until their respective successors are
appointed and qualified. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-9-3: SECRETARY; DUTIES:
The board may employ a secretary, or may designate one of its own members to
act as such. The secretary shall keep minutes of the board's proceedings, be
the custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the board, keep a
record of all examinations held, and shall perform all other duties the board
prescribes. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 10
VETERANS' MEMORIAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Creation Of Commission
2-10-2: Term Of Office
2-10-3: Duties
2-10-4: Budget; Salary
2-10-1: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
The Dixon veterans' memorial commission consisting of no less than ten (10)
members and no greater than sixteen (16) members shall be and the same is
hereby created. (Ord. 2357, 11-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015; Ord. 3219, 12-7-2020)
2-10-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Dixon veterans' memorial commission shall be appointed by
the mayor and shall serve with the consent of the council for two (2) year
terms. The term of office of the initial appointment shall be at least five (5)
members for one year and at least five (5) members for two (2) years. The
chairman of the commission shall be elected from and by the commission members
for a term of one (1) year. The commission shall have the power to establish
bylaws and rules and shall have the authority to elect or appoint such other
officers as the commission deems necessary; but the chairman of the commission
or any other officer appointed or elected by the commission may be removed at
any time by majority vote of the duly appointed members of the commission.
(Ord. 2357, 11-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015; Ord. 3219, 12-
7-2020)
2-10-3: DUTIES:
The commission shall make recommendations to the city council regarding the
acquisition of a veterans' memorial site, the design and development of the
site and the maintenance of said site. The Dixon veterans' memorial commission
shall meet at such times and in such places as the commission determines is
necessary. (Ord. 2357, 11-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-10-4: BUDGET; SALARY:
The commission shall operate under such budget, if any, as may from time to
time be established by the annual appropriation ordinance of the city, but no
expenditures shall be made, including employees' salary, without the prior
approval of the city council. All expenditures shall be made in accordance with
this code and the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 2357, 11-5-2001; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 11
TREE COMMISSION 1
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 6, Trees and Shrubbery.
ARTICLE A. TREE ORDINANCE 1
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
CHAPTER 12
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY BOARD
SECTION:
2-12-1: Compliance
2-12-2: Fee
2-12-3: Reports
2-12-4: Recovery, Effect On Policies
2-12-5: Companies In Default
2-12-6: Creation Of Foreign Fire Insurance Board
2-12-7: Officers Of Foreign Fire Insurance Board
2-12-8: Deposit Of Receipts
2-12-9: Rules And Regulations
2-12-10: Treasurer Bond
2-12-11: Disbursement Of Funds
2-12-12: Limitation On Debt And Expenditures
2-12-13: General Legal Requirements
2-12-14: Fund Records; Meeting Minutes
2-12-1: COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not incorporated under
the laws of the state of Illinois, to engage in effecting fire insurance, or to
transact any business of fire insurance in the city while not in full
compliance with all of the requirements of this chapter; however, this
provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association from the
payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-2: FEE:
Any corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws of the
state of Illinois, which is engaged in the city in effecting fire insurance,
shall pay to the city treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
fire department of the city, a sum of money equal in an amount to two percent
(2%) per annum of the gross receipts received for premiums by any and all
agents of any such corporation, company or association during the year ending
on every July 1 for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected in the city
by or with any such corporation, company or association during such year. (Ord.
2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-3: REPORTS:
Every corporation, company or association doing business in the city, or any
person acting as agent for or on behalf of any such corporation, company or
association, shall, on or before July 15 of each year, render to the city
treasurer, a full, true and just account, verified by the oath of the secretary
or treasurer of such corporation, company or association or verified by the
oath of such person acting as agent for or on behalf of any such corporation,
company or association. Every such corporation, company or association or any
such person acting as agent as aforesaid, shall also at the time of rendering
the report, pay to the city treasurer the sum of money for which such
corporation, company or association is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-
2015)
2-12-4: RECOVERY, EFFECT ON POLICIES:
The sum of money for which such corporation, company or association is so
chargeable, may be recovered of it, or its agent or agents, by an action in the
name of and for the use of the city, as for money had and received. Nothing in
this section shall be held to exempt any person, corporation, company or
association from indictment and conviction under the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 et seq. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-
20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-5: COMPANIES IN DEFAULT:
No insurance broker or agent in the city shall place any insurance with any
company, association or corporation not incorporated under the laws of the
state of Illinois, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payment as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-
20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-6: CREATION OF FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD:
There shall be established a board known as the foreign fire insurance board.
The board shall consist of seven (7) trustees, one of whom shall be the fire
chief who shall hold office by virtue of rank, and six (6) members who shall be
elected at large by the sworn members of the fire department for a term of one
year and until their successors are appointed. (Ord. 2763, 11-2-2009; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-7: OFFICERS OF FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD:
The members of the board shall annually elect officers to serve a one year
term. The officers of the board shall be a chairman and treasurer. (Ord. 2763,
11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-8: DEPOSIT OF RECEIPTS:
The city treasurer shall pay upon receipt the sums received pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 and 5/11-10-2 to the treasurer of the
foreign fire insurance board. The funds so received shall be deposited by the
treasurer into a fund to be known as the foreign fire insurance fund which
shall be managed and administered by the board. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd.
Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The foreign fire insurance board shall be empowered to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient and effective management of the monies in the
fund. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-10: TREASURER BOND:
The treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board shall give a sufficient bond
to the city. The bond shall be approved by the mayor. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007;
amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-11: DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
All monies disbursed by the foreign fire insurance board shall be approved by
the majority vote of the board for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
department. All checks disbursed by the board shall be signed by the treasurer
and the chairman of the board. All full time members of the fire department
will be given an opportunity to express their views as to how the monies should
be disbursed, but the board shall make all final decisions on disbursements of
monies from the fund. (Ord. 2763, 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-
4-2015)
2-12-12: LIMITATION ON DEBT AND EXPENDITURES:
Without the express authorization of the city council, the board shall not: a)
incur debt or b) enter into any contract or other agreement for any
expenditures in excess of the unencumbered funds currently on deposit in, and
authorized for expenditure from, the foreign fire insurance fund at the time of
execution of any such contract or agreement. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-13: GENERAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
The board shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, including,
without limitation, all auditing, finance, procurement, and purchasing statutes
and regulations, as well as all open meetings and freedom of information
statutes and regulations. (Ord. 2649, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
2-12-14: FUND RECORDS; MEETING MINUTES:
The board treasurer shall keep accurate and current records of the fund and all
accounts maintained thereunder, including all deposits thereto, withdrawals and
disbursements therefrom, balances therein, and all other regular and customary
financial and accounting information. As part of the annual municipal audit,
the fund shall be audited to verify that the funds have been expended by the
board only for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Dixon fire department.
The board shall have accurate and current minutes kept of all meetings
conducted by the board. (Ord. 2763, 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 13
DIXON RIVERFRONT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-13-1: Creation Of Commission
2-13-2: Term Of Office
2-13-3: Duties
2-13-4: Budget; Salary
2-13-1: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
The Dixon riverfront commission consisting of ten (10) members shall be and is
hereby created. The mayor shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the
commission. (Ord. 2759, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-13-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Dixon riverfront commission shall be appointed by the mayor
and shall serve with the consent of the city council for two (2) year terms.
The number of members may be increased or decreased from time to time by
majority vote of the city council. The mayor, with the consent of the city
council, may remove any member for misconduct or neglect of duty. The members
shall be appointed in March of each year. The commission shall have the power
to establish bylaws and rules and shall have the authority to elect or appoint
such other officers as the commission deems necessary. Any such officer
appointed or elected by the commission may be removed from such office at any
time by majority vote of the duly appointed members of the commission. (Ord.
2759, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-13-3: DUTIES:
The commission shall make recommendations to the city council regarding the
riverfront area located between the Abraham Lincoln Bridge (also known as
Galena Avenue Bridge) and Veterans Memorial Bridge (also known as Peoria Avenue
Bridge) commonly known as Heritage Crossing; promote, encourage and foster the
development and expansion of the riverfront of the city of Dixon, Illinois; and
do all things necessary to improve, develop, revitalize, beautify, aid and
expand the riverfront of the city. Said duties shall also include, but not be
limited to, the making of recommendations to the city council with regard to
the use, protection, maintenance, acquisition and control of the riverfront and
the riverfront area commonly known as Heritage Crossing. The Dixon riverfront
commission shall meet at such times and at such places as the commission
determines is necessary. (Ord. 2759, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015)
2-13-4: BUDGET; SALARY:
The commission shall operate under such budget, if any, as may from time to
time be established by the annual appropriation ordinance of the city, but no
expenditures shall be made, including employees' salaries, without prior
approval of the city council. All expenditures shall be made in accordance with
this code and the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 2759, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 14
ANTICRIME TASK FORCE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-14-1: Creation Of Commission; Purpose
2-14-2: Composition; Appointment Of Members; Term Of Office
2-14-3: Rules And Procedures Of Commission
2-14-4: Funding
2-14-5: Reports
2-14-1: CREATION OF COMMISSION; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created the anticrime task force commission pursuant to
authority granted under section 7 of the anti-crime advisory council act, 20
Illinois Compiled Statutes 3910/0.01 et seq. The commission shall constitute a
local anticrime program under said section 7. The purpose of the commission
shall be to provide funds to local law enforcement agencies for activities and
programs designed to prevent crimes involving drugs and alcohol. (Ord. 2959, 2-
2-2015; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-14-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint the
members of the commission. The commission shall consist of five (5) members. At
least three (3) members shall be senior members of local law enforcement
agencies in Lee County, including the city of Dixon chief of police, the Lee
County sheriff and the Lee County state's attorney or their respective
designees. Each member of the commission shall serve a term of four (4) years
and until his/her respective successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 2959,
2-2-2015; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-14-3: RULES AND PROCEDURES OF COMMISSION:
The commission shall adopt such rules and procedures as may be desirable to
carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter. One member of the
commission shall be designated as chairperson by majority vote of the members
and shall hold office until a successor is designated. The chairperson shall
preside at all meetings of the commission. One member of the commission shall
be designated as secretary by majority vote of the members and shall hold
office until a successor is designated. The secretary shall record the minutes
and proceedings of each meeting of the commission and provide the city clerk
with a copy of the same within thirty (30) days of each meeting. One of the
members of the commission shall be designated as treasurer by majority vote of
the members and shall hold office until a successor is designated. The
treasurer shall collect and keep an accurate record of all financial
transactions and shall arrange with the city's finance director to disburse and
give receipts for all monies handled. The chairperson, the secretary and the
treasurer shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with the purposes of
this chapter as directed by the commission. No member of the commission shall
hold more than one office at the same time. (Ord. 2959, 2-2-2015; amd. Ord.
2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-14-4: FUNDING:
Funding for the commission comes primarily from fines levied against persons
who commit violations of city ordinances and are sentenced to court supervision
pursuant to 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, which authorizes such
fines to be contributed to a "local anticrime program", as defined in section 7
of the anti-crime advisory council act. (Ord. 2959, 2-2-2015; amd. Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
2-14-5: REPORTS:
The commission shall submit an annual report to the mayor and city council. The
report shall review the activities of the commission and shall also contain
recommendations for further action to accomplish its purposes. (Ord. 2959, 2-2-
2015; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
GRADES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Base Or Datum Plane
3-1-2: Street Grades On Centerline
3-1-3: Slope And Grade Of Sidewalks
3-1-4: Establishing And Changing Grades
3-1-5: Grade Of Sidewalks
3-1-6: Established Grades To Be Used
3-1-1: BASE OR DATUM PLANE:
The base or datum plane to which shall be referred all grades and levels in the
city is hereby fixed as an imaginary horizontal plane one hundred feet (100')
below the northeast corner of the lowest doorstep in front of the B.H. Shaw
Building at the corner of East 1st Street and Ottawa Avenue in the city. (1950
Code)
3-1-2: STREET GRADES ON CENTERLINE:
All grades for streets in the city shall be on the centerline thereof and the
fixed points shall be at the center of the intersection of the streets with
each other or at the points at which, if they were extended, the streets would
intersect or at other points in the centerline of the streets authorized and
definitely located and all grades between established grade points shall be
straight lines drawn from one fixed point to the nearest fixed point thereto.
(1950 Code)
3-1-3: SLOPE AND GRADE OF SIDEWALKS:
All grades of sidewalks, unless otherwise determined by the council, shall at
the outer edge thereof, be at least six inches (6") above the grade of the
streets on which the sidewalks are located and the sidewalks shall slope toward
the street with pitch of one inch (1") in every four feet (4') except as
otherwise provided by ordinance. (1950 Code)
3-1-4: ESTABLISHING AND CHANGING GRADES:
The establishment of any grade by the council shall fix and determine the
permanent grade for the street for which it was designated, but such
establishment of such grade shall not be construed to authorize any person to
change or alter the existing grades or conditions of any street or sidewalk or
any part thereof until ordered altered by the council. (1950 Code)
3-1-5: GRADE OF SIDEWALKS:
All sidewalks, streets and alleys or parts or portions thereof to be built or
constructed in the city, where not provided for by special ordinance, shall be
built and constructed upon a grade to be established by the council upon
request. (1950 Code)
3-1-6: ESTABLISHED GRADES TO BE USED:
No person shall construct any street, alley or sidewalk upon any grade other
than a grade established by ordinance. (1950 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Compliance
3-2-4: Permit Required
3-2-5: Permit Fee
3-2-6: Application Permit; Deposits
3-2-7: Application Permit; Requirements
3-2-8: Franchise Holders
3-2-9: Backfilling
3-2-10: Pavement Replacement
3-2-11: Tunneling Under Streets
3-2-12: Interfering With Access To Vital Equipment
3-2-13: Protect Adjoining Property
3-2-14: Refund Of Deposits; Lien
3-2-15: Violation
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be known and cited as the EXCAVATION CODE OF THE CITY OF
DIXON. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein, when not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural number
include the singular number.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The person authorized by the council to act in the capacity
of building official; inspector shall be synonymous with building official. The
building official or such person, in public employment, as the building
official may designate as his representative shall be the administrative
authority of this chapter.
EXCAVATION: Any opening in the surface of a public place made in any manner
whatsoever.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any public street, alley, way, place, sidewalk, park, square,
plaza, or any other public property owned or controlled by any governmental
agency in a governmental capacity, excepting here from governmental agencies of
the United States Of America, the state of Illinois, and the county of Lee.
(Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-3: COMPLIANCE:
All excavations made in public places within the city shall be made according
to and in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise
provided by the council for a specific instance. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, except a public works superintendent employed by the city, while
acting in his official capacity; or a contractor performing necessary work
under a contract with the city and under supervision and direction of the city,
shall make or cause to be made any excavation in any public place for any
purpose whatsoever without having first obtained a permit therefor signed by
the building official. Permits shall be issued in triplicate by the building
official to applicants only after requirements pertaining to applications and
permits hereinafter set forth shall have been met by the applicants. (Ord.
2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-5: PERMIT FEE:
A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be collected by the city from each
applicant other than quasi-public utilities for each permit issued. No permit
shall be issued by the building official to any person for any excavation for
any purposes whatsoever unless and until such person has completed an
application for a permit on blanks to be furnished by the building official;
application forms when signed as approved by the building official shall become
and shall be construed as excavation permits. Permits shall be made out in
triplicate, the original and copy marked "For Deposit Return" shall be given
the applicant. Copy marked "File" shall be retained in the building official's
office. Permits issued for sanitary sewer or water connection shall show
diagram of connection on reverse side for permanent record.
Each application for an excavation permit shall be subject to such conditions
and requirements as are herein and hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-6: APPLICATION PERMIT; DEPOSITS:
Each application for an excavation permit shall state the name of the person
desiring to make such excavation, the purpose for which the excavation is to be
made and the person for which the excavation is to be made, the location of the
cut in the street, the house number and street name or lot and block number and
name of addition, and type of street surface to be cut. A two hundred dollar
($200.00) deposit shall be required for all excavations, including, but not
limited to, excavations in concrete pavement or sidewalk, bituminous concrete,
brick pavement or sidewalk, tarvia or gravel street, or a dirt road.
Provided, however, if a person or business entity has been a registered
contractor with the city of Dixon building department for a period in excess of
one year and maintains said registration in accordance with title 7, chapter 1
of this code, said person or business entity may pay a five hundred dollar
($500.00) deposit for multiple openings, not to exceed eight (8) in number at
one time. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-7: APPLICATION PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
The application and permit shall state that the person to whom the permit shall
be issued agrees to prosecute the excavation work, and backfilling with the
utmost vigor, with as little delay and inconvenience to the public and the city
as possible, in strict conformity with the provisions of this code, with
provisions of all barricades, flares, lights, signs, and any other safeguards
as are necessary or shall be deemed necessary by the building official; the
person desiring to obtain an excavation permit shall further agree to remove
all surplus materials of whatever nature from the excavation site and restore
the site to as good or better condition than existed before excavation
commenced, to perform all work in conjunction with the particular excavation so
as to comply with all requirements as shall be set forth by this code, to hold
and save harmless and indemnify the city, its agents, officers, and employees
from any liability or responsibilities for damages to any person or property
injured by the performance of any excavation work or by the carelessness or
neglect of the person to whom the permit shall be issued or persons to whom the
permit shall have been issued. All permits issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire ninety (90) days after date of issuance. Upon request, the
building official may grant an extension at the time of issuance for jobs which
would require additional time. No extension shall be permitted to extend beyond
three hundred sixty five (365) days from the date issued. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-8: FRANCHISE HOLDERS:
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or business entity not
registered as a contractor in accordance with title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
   (B)   Utilities having a current franchise agreement with the city of Dixon
shall notify the building department in writing prior to the commencement of
construction of any street opening. In case of an emergency, notification may
be provided after the completion of the work, but in no instance later than ten
(10) days after the work has commenced. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-9: BACKFILLING:
All trenches and excavations shall be backfilled to the natural line or
finished surface as rapidly as the condition of the utility will permit or
within thirty (30) days of the date the permit is issued, whichever is sooner.
The backfill material shall consist of the excavated material or of trench
backfill, as herein specified. All backfill material shall be deposited in the
trench or excavation in such a manner as not to damage the utility. The filling
of the trench shall be carried on simultaneously on both sides of the pipe in
such a manner that injurious side pressures do not occur. The backfill for
trenches and excavations made in the subgrade and for all trenches outside of
the subgrade where the inner edge of the trench is within two feet (2') of the
edge of the pavement, curb, or gutter, shall be made with trench backfill
material unless the excavated material meets the requirements of the city.
All backfill material up to the height of twelve inches (12") above the pipe
shall be carefully deposited in uniform layers not exceeding four inches (4")
thick (loose measure). The material in each layer shall be firmly compacted by
ramming or tamping with tools approved by the city, in such a manner as not to
disturb or injure the pipe. The backfilling above this height, except trench
backfill or excavated material meeting the requirements of state highway
backfill material, shall be done by one of the following methods:
Method 1: The material shall be deposited in uniform layers not exceeding
twelve inches (12") thick (loose material), and each layer shall be compacted
by ramming or tamping with tools approved by the city.
Method 2: The material shall be deposited in uniform layers not exceeding
twelve inches (12") thick (loose measure), and each layer shall be either
inundated or deposited in water.
Method 3: The trench shall be backfilled with loose material, and settlement
secured by introducing water through holes jetted into the backfill to a point
approximately two feet (2') above the top of the pipe. The holes shall be
spaced as directed by the inspector but shall be no farther than six feet (6')
apart.
The water shall be injected at a pressure just sufficient to sink the holes at
a moderate rate of speed. The pressure shall be such that the water will not
cut cavities in the backfill material nor overflow the surface. If water does
overflow the surface, it shall be drained into the jetted holes by means of
shallow trenches. Water shall be injected as long as it will be absorbed by the
backfill material and until samples taken from test holes in the trench show an
approved moisture content. The contractor shall bore the test holes not more
than fifty feet (50') apart and at such other locations in the trench as
designated by the engineer. As soon as the water soaking has been completed,
all the holes shall be filled with soil and compacted by ramming with a tool
approved by the inspector.
Backfill material which has been water soaked shall be allowed to settle and
dry for at least ten (10) days before any surface course or pavement is
construed on it. The length of time may be altered if deemed necessary by the
inspector. Where the inner edge of the trench is within two feet (2') of the
edge of the pavement, curb, gutter or curb and gutter, the provisions of this
paragraph shall apply also.
At the end of the settling and drying period, the crusted top of the backfill
material shall be scarified, and, if necessary, sufficient backfill material
added, as specified in method 1 of this section, to complete the backfilling
operations.
Trench backfill material or excavated material meeting city requirements and
above the first twelve inches (12") above the pipe, shall be compacted by
either method 2 or method 3 of this section.
The method used for backfilling and compacting the backfill material shall be
at the discretion of the contractor. However, if the method used by the
contractor does not produce results satisfactory to the building inspector, the
contractor shall be required to alter or change the method being used to a
method approved by the building inspector.
When sheeting and bracing have been used, sufficient bracing shall be left
across the trench as the backfilling progresses to hold the sides as firmly in
place as practicable. Any depressions which may develop within the area
involved in the construction operation due to settlement of the backfilling
material shall be filled in a manner meeting the approval of the engineer.
(Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-10: PAVEMENT REPLACEMENT:
The existing pavement shall be removed for a width of one foot (1') along each
side of the trench.
If the existing surface is either concrete or brick, the trench backfill
material shall be placed to a depth of eight inches (8") below the finished
surface elevation. The surface shall then be replaced by pouring and finishing
an eight inch (8") concrete slab of class SI concrete to meet the existing
surface.
If the existing surface is bituminous concrete over aggregate, the trench
backfill shall be placed to a depth of ten inches (10") below the finished
surface elevation. An eight inch (8") concrete slab of class SI concrete shall
then be placed to a depth of two inches (2") below the existing surface and a
bituminous concrete surface (B-5 or I-11) shall be placed and thoroughly
compacted to meet the existing surface.
Cold patch material or concrete with a double layer of five (5) mil poly
(minimum) separation may be used to surface the trench only as a temporary
measure when hot mix material is not available. Within thirty (30) days of hot
mix material being available, the cold patch or concrete shall be removed and
replaced by hot mix.
If the existing surface is bituminous concrete over brick or concrete, the
trench backfill shall be placed to a depth of ten inches (10") below the
existing surface. An eight inch (8") concrete slab of class SI concrete shall
then be placed to a depth of two inches (2") below the existing surface. A two
inch (2") hot mix surface shall then be placed and compacted over the concrete
slab after it has been cured and primed.
Cold patch material or concrete with a double layer of five (5) mil poly
(minimum) separation may be used to surface the trench only as a temporary
surface until hot mix material is available. Within thirty (30) days of hot mix
material being available, the cold patch or concrete shall be removed and
replaced by hot mix.
When the existing surface is gravel or crushed stone, the trench backfill
material shall be placed to a depth of eight inches (8") below the existing
surface. Eight inches (8") of crushed stone surface course shall then be placed
and compacted to meet the existing surface. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-11: TUNNELING UNDER STREETS:
No person shall be permitted to tunnel under any street, alley, sidewalk, road,
pavement or public place unless authorized by the city. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-12: INTERFERING WITH ACCESS TO VITAL EQUIPMENT:
Excavation work done by any person shall be performed and conducted so as not
to interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water
gates, hospitals and any other vital equipment designated by the city. (Ord.
2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-13: PROTECT ADJOINING PROPERTY:
Any person making an excavation shall at all times and at his own expense
preserve and protect from damage or injury all adjoining property by providing
proper sheeting, bracing, shoring, and drainage. The person making the
excavation shall be solely responsible for all damage to public or private
property resulting from or occasioned by the excavation. On all excavations in
any public place in the city the person making the excavation shall provide at
his own expense such barriers, barricades, fences, lights, flares, torches,
sign and warning devices as the building official shall require for safety and
for convenience of any or all the general public. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-14: REFUND OF DEPOSITS; LIEN:
   (A)   Deposits shall be kept separate from the other city funds. After the
person to whom the permit has been issued has completed all requirements as set
forth in this code, said person shall return the permit copy marked "For
Deposit Return" to the building official. The building official shall inspect
said excavation site and if all code requirements have been met to his
satisfaction, the building official shall sign said copy and forward it to the
city treasurer who shall refund the amount deposited for the specific
excavation.
   (B)   A deposit for multiple openings shall be retained by the city building
department until a request for refund is made by the contractor. Upon
completion and approval of all work performed under all open permits issued to
the contractor, the building official shall authorize the city treasurer to
refund the deposit.
   (C)   If within thirty (30) days of the date the permit was issued or on
such date otherwise specified in the permit, the person to whom the permit was
issued has not restored the street, alley, sidewalk, pavement or public place
to as good a condition as prior to the opening as determined by the building
official or his designee, the deposit shall be used by the city to restore the
excavated area to as good a condition and such portion, if any, of the deposit
not expended to complete the restoration shall be refunded to the depositor.
Any costs incurred by the city in excess of the deposit shall be reimbursed to
the city by the applicant within thirty (30) days of the date the city requests
reimbursement for payment of the costs incurred in excess of the deposit.
   (D)   Such cost, if not paid within said thirty (30) days, shall be a lien
upon the real estate affected if, within sixty (60) days thereafter, the city
or the person performing the repair work files notice of lien in the office of
the recorder of deeds. Such notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out: 1) a description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof,
2) the amount of money incurred or payable for the repair work, 3) the date, or
dates, when such costs and expense were incurred. The person to whom the tax
bill was sent for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year
shall be served a copy of the notice of lien; service shall be made personally
or by certified mail.
   (E)   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been
filed, the city or person in whose name the lien has been filed shall provide a
release of lien. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
3-2-15: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or failing or neglecting to
comply with any requirements shall be deemed guilty of a separate misdemeanor
for each and every day during any part of which such violation or noncompliance
occurs. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter may further be
refused any permits until he shall have complied with the provisions of this
chapter. Any incidence of violation of this chapter shall be cause for the
building official to immediately revoke or suspend an excavation permit without
prejudice to other action on the violation. (Ord. 2781, 5-3-2010)
CHAPTER 3
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Encroachments Prohibited
3-3-2: Building Material (Rep. 2020 Code)
3-3-3: Removal Of Obstructions
3-3-4: Throwing Ashes, Debris, And Yard Waste
3-3-5: Snow Or Water On Sidewalks
3-3-6: Merchandise On Sidewalks
3-3-7: Use For Storage Or Display
3-3-8: Removal Of Tools And Materials
3-3-9: Loading Materials Across Sidewalks (Rep. 2020 Code)
3-3-10: Sidewalk Openings; Specifications; Bond
3-3-11: Reflective Markings On Dumpsters
3-3-1: ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No person shall make or cause to be made any enclosure, bay window, building or
structure of any kind upon, over or across any street, alley or sidewalk. (1950
Code)
3-3-2: BUILDING MATERIAL:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
3-3-3: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS:
The owner of any building, fence or other structure which extends into or
encroaches upon any street, alley or sidewalk shall remove it. The Director of
Public Works may direct the removal of such obstruction or encroachment at the
expense of the person maintaining, causing or erecting it. (1950 Code; amd.
2020 Code)
3-3-4: THROWING ASHES, DEBRIS, AND YARD WASTE:
No person shall throw, place, or leave, or permit to be thrown, placed, or
left, any ashes, debris (including, but not limited to, dirt, filth, garbage,
solid waste or rubbish), or yard waste (including, but not limited to, grass
clippings, leaves, brush, and tree branches) in or upon any street, alley, or
sidewalk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation of this
section if such items are placed curbside in approved bags or containers
pursuant to the city’s solid waste collection and disposal program.
(1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3408, 8-19-2024)
3-3-5: SNOW OR WATER ON SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   No person shall pile, deposit or cause to be piled or deposited or
allow any other entity with which it has contracted, to cause to be piled or
deposited, any snow or ice upon or against a fire hydrant or upon any sidewalk
or upon a public right of way, except for the public right of way immediately
adjacent to the person's property. Further, no person shall pile or cause to be
piled any snow so as to obstruct the vision of any intersection of any street,
avenue, boulevard or alley within the city. (Ord. 1918, 12-18-1995)
   (B)   Every owner and every person in charge or control of any building or
lot of land in any area of the city zoned "B-1 limited neighborhood business
district", or "B-2 general business district", or "CBD central business
district", shall remove and clear away or cause to be removed and cleared away
snow, ice, sleet, or freezing rain from the sidewalks in front or abutting said
lands within twenty four (24) hours after the cessation of any fall of snow,
ice, sleet, or freezing rain. In the event snow, ice, sleet, or freezing rain
on a sidewalk has become so hard that it cannot reasonably be removed, the
owner and/or person in charge or control shall cause enough sand or suitable
abrasive material to be put on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably
safe and shall maintain the sidewalk in such condition until weather permits
the owner to clear the sidewalk. (Ord. 2685, 3-17-2008)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating this section, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 2565, 1-3-2006)
3-3-6: MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS:
No person, while receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise, shall
permit them to remain on any sidewalk longer than two (2) hours, and, for this
purpose, shall occupy only so much of the outer edge of the sidewalk in front
of a building as will leave an unoccupied space of at least four feet (4') in
width of any such sidewalk for the use of pedestrians. (1950 Code)
3-3-7: USE FOR STORAGE OR DISPLAY:
   (A)   Daily storage and display of wares, merchandise and other material
adjacent to a building shall be allowed on streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways
or public places; providing, such public display and usage does not exceed
thirty six inches (36") on said sidewalk or said public place.
   (B)   On special occasions, permission may be granted by the mayor to ban
automobile traffic from streets, alleys, parkways and public places, and
approval given to use sidewalk areas for display and sale of wares, merchandise
and other material; providing, adequate pedestrian thoroughfares are allowed
and pedestrian safety is maintained. (Ord. 703, 8-7-1972)
3-3-8: REMOVAL OF TOOLS AND MATERIALS:
Whoever constructs, builds or repairs any street, alley or sidewalk shall
remove all materials, tools, appliances or other articles used in or about said
construction, building or repairing within twenty four (24) hours after the
completion of the construction, building or repairing. (1950 Code)
3-3-9: LOADING MATERIALS ACROSS SIDEWALKS:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
3-3-10: SIDEWALK OPENINGS; SPECIFICATIONS; BOND:
Every opening in any sidewalk over any vault or coal hole shall have a metal or
cement cover flush with the walk; the upper surfaces shall be roughened and all
parts of the sidewalks, including illuminating tile or other structural parts,
shall be capable of sustaining a load at all points simultaneously equal to
four hundred (400) pounds for each superficial foot of the surface thereof. The
construction of all vaults and coal holes shall be subject to the supervision
and direction of the commissioner of streets and public improvements or such
other officer as may be designated by the council. All persons who maintain any
vault or coal hole shall execute and file with the clerk a bond to the city in
such a reasonable sum as may be fixed by the mayor, with good and sufficient
sureties to be approved by him, conditioned that the person will pay all
damages that may be recovered against the city by any person on account of any
injuries to person or property occasioned by or in any manner resulting from
the coal holes or openings and to save and keep the city free from all damages
and costs which may be incurred in defending such claims 1 . (1950 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3, 5/11-80-10, 5/11-80-13.
3-3-11: REFLECTIVE MARKINGS ON DUMPSTERS:
   (A)   No contractor, builder or other person shall allow a dumpster to be
parked on a street in the city, unless that dumpster has reflective devices
permanently attached to all four (4) sides of the dumpster.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating this section, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such a violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 1725, 4-5-1993; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 4
INJURY TO STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR CITY PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-4-1: Protection Of Sidewalks And Curbs
3-4-2: Repair Work; Liability To City
3-4-3: Repairing Injury To Streets And Public Ways
3-4-4: Damage To Uncompleted Work
3-4-5: Liability For Damage
3-4-6: Removal Of Barriers
3-4-7: Injury To Property
3-4-8: Use Of Public Fountain
3-4-9: Penalties
3-4-1: PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS:
No person shall drive, draw or propel any truck or other heavy vehicle across
any sidewalk or curb without first protecting the sidewalk or curb from injury
by planking or other adequate protection. No persons shall deface, discolor,
mar, or otherwise damage any sidewalk, curb, any other public way or other area
of pedestrian traffic of whatsoever kind or nature within the City. (Ord. 2760,
10-19-2009)
3-4-2: REPAIR WORK; LIABILITY TO CITY:
Any person who shall injure, deface, discolor, mar, or otherwise damage any
street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, or any other public way whatsoever, or
any part thereof, or dig any hole, trench, ditch, drain, or dig or remove any
sod, stone, curb, earth, sand, or gravel from any street, alley, sidewalk,
parkway or other public way of whatsoever kind or nature shall be responsible
and liable to the City for all costs of repair. In addition, any such person
shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from all damages to persons or
property in consequence of such damage for which the City is adjudged liable to
any other person or entity. (Ord. 2760, 10-19-2009)
3-4-3: REPAIRING INJURY TO STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
If any person shall break, deface, discolor, mar, or otherwise damage any
portion of the pavement of any street, sidewalk, or other public way of
whatsoever kind or nature within the City, he or she shall, within twenty four
(24) hours thereafter, cause the same to be restored to as good a condition as
before the damage. For sidewalks subject to repair under this section, said
repair shall be made in such a manner as to make the sidewalk accessible to
persons with disabilities by complying with all relevant rules and regulations
of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 USC section 12101 et seq. In
the event such person does not repair the damaged property to as good a
condition as before the injury, or in the case of a sidewalk, does not make
said sidewalk accessible to persons with disabilities as contemplated herein,
said person shall be liable to the City for any and all costs of repair,
alteration or remediation incurred by the City in repairing said damage. (Ord.
3140, 5-6-2019)
3-4-4: DAMAGE TO UNCOMPLETED WORK:
No person other than the contractor building the same or his employees shall go
upon, either by walking, riding or driving, any cement, concrete, asphalt,
bitulithic or other type of hard surfaced sidewalk, pavement, curb or gutter
being constructed under employment of the City until the sidewalk, pavement,
curb or gutter has been properly cured or hardened and opened for public use.
(Ord. 2760, 10-19-2009)
3-4-5: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
Any person injuring any such pavement, sidewalk, curb, or gutter before it has
been properly cured or hardened shall be liable to the City or to the
contractor, as the case may be, for all the costs of repairing the damage.
(Ord. 2760, 10-19-2009)
3-4-6: REMOVAL OF BARRIERS:
Where, in the course of making any walk, pavement, curb or gutter, any barriers
are placed by a contractor or by the City to prevent the use of the uncured
improvements, no person shall remove them 1 . (Ord. 2760, 10-19-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-10.
3-4-7: INJURY TO PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully, maliciously, or negligently cut, break, climb on,
carry away, conceal, transfer, tamper with, mark on, or in any way injure,
damage, or deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, grass, statue, bust, lamppost,
hydrant, regulating device, transformer, meter, wire, wiring, pole, curbstone,
flagstone, fence, wall, bridge, balustrade, railing, bench, building, or other
structure of any kind or property, or take down, alter, mar, move, injure, or
destroy any sign, trailmarker, placard, notice, post, pile, or buoy posted or
placed by the City or authorized to be posted or placed by the City Engineer or
Chief of Police. (Ord. 2829, 7-5-2011)
3-4-8: USE OF PUBLIC FOUNTAIN:
No person shall bathe, wade in the standing water of, wash clothes or items in,
urinate in, defecate in, enter into, or climb on any structure of, nor throw or
otherwise place or cause to be placed any rubbish, waste debris, garbage,
refuse or other trash, or any toxic substance, in the waters or fixtures of the
fountain located at the south end of Hennepin Avenue, known as "Heritage
Crossing". No person shall allow an animal in their custody or control to
commit any of the above acts. (Ord. 2829, 7-5-2011)
3-4-9: PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding and in addition to the foregoing, any person found guilty of a
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 2760, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2829, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 5
NUMBERING OF LOTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Decimal System Adopted
3-5-2: Size Of Lot Numbered
3-5-3: Dividing Line, North And South
3-5-4: Dividing Line, East And West
3-5-5: Prefix To Names Of Streets
3-5-6: Odd And Even Numbers
3-5-7: Where Numbering Commences
3-5-8: Numbering By Series Of Hundreds
3-5-9: Numbering Between Rock River And First Street
3-5-10: System Applied In North Dixon
3-5-11: Streets East And West From Galena Avenue
3-5-12: Streets Running East And West Not Intersecting Galena Avenue
3-5-13: Numbering Of Houses Required
3-5-14: Street Naming Committee
3-5-15: Name Changes (Rep. 2020 Code)
3-5-1: DECIMAL SYSTEM ADOPTED:
The numbering of all lots, houses, or buildings fronting upon the public
thoroughfares within the city shall be in conformity with the decimal system
and the regulations following. (Ord. 556, 7-25-1967)
3-5-2: SIZE OF LOT NUMBERED:
Every twenty five feet (25') of street frontage, exclusive of streets and
inclusive of alleys, shall, for the purpose of numbering, be deemed a lot and
each lot is hereby provided with a number according to the following plan.
(Ord. 556, 7-25-1967)
3-5-3: DIVIDING LINE, NORTH AND SOUTH:
Rock River shall be the dividing line between Dixon and North Dixon as the same
are hereinafter designated. (Ord. 556, 7-25-1967)
3-5-4: DIVIDING LINE, EAST AND WEST:
Galena Avenue in Dixon and North Galena Avenue in North Dixon shall be the base
or dividing line east and west. (Ord. 556, 7-25-1967)
3-5-5: PREFIX TO NAMES OF STREETS:
That portions of all avenues running north and south of Rock River shall have
the prefix "North" to the names of all streets, or avenues, that lie north of
Rock River and the prefix "South" to the names of all avenues which lie south
of said Rock River; that portions of all streets running east and west and
lying west of Galena Avenue and North Galena Avenue shall have the prefix
"West" to their names and that all portions of such streets lying east of
Galena Avenue and North Galena Avenue shall have prefixed to their names the
word "East". (Ord. 567, 10-3-1967)
3-5-6: ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS:
On streets running north and south the odd numbers shall be on the west side of
the street and the even numbers on the east side of the street; on all streets
running east and west the odd numbers shall be on the north side of the street
and the even numbers on the south side of the street. (1950 Code)
3-5-7: WHERE NUMBERING COMMENCES:
In Dixon the numbering of lots on streets running south and north shall
commence at 1st Street; in North Dixon the numbering of lots on streets running
north and south shall commence at Rock River. (1950 Code)
3-5-8: NUMBERING BY SERIES OF HUNDREDS:
The numbering of said streets and avenues shall be by series of hundreds as
follows: the first twenty five feet (25') in the northeast corner of block
number sixteen in the original town (now city) of Dixon and abutting Galena
Avenue shall be numbered 101 and the lot directly opposite in block number
seventeen and abutting Galena Avenue shall be numbered 102 and said numbering
shall so continue until all lots abutting Galena Avenue in the blocks have been
numbered; the first twenty five feet (25') in the northeast corner of block
number twenty nine in the original town (now city) of Dixon and abutting Galena
Avenue shall be numbered 201 and the first twenty five feet (25') directly
opposite in block number twenty eight shall be numbered 202 and so on the
entire length of Galena Avenue, each new set of blocks commencing with a new
series of hundreds. On all streets and avenues running parallel or in the same
general direction with Galena Avenue the lots shall be numbered to correspond
with the numbering of the corresponding or opposite lots on Galena Avenue.
(1950 Code)
3-5-9: NUMBERING BETWEEN ROCK RIVER AND FIRST STREET:
All lots abutting Galena Avenue and lying between 1st Street and Rock River
shall be numbered by commencing with the first twenty five feet (25') on the
southeast corner of block number five in the original town (now city) of Dixon,
which shall be numbered 99, and the first twenty five feet (25') directly
opposite, being in the southwest corner of block number four in the original
town (now city) of Dixon shall be numbered 98; the next twenty five feet (25')
lying north of and adjoining number 99 in block number five shall be numbered
97, and so on down until all of the lots abutting Galena Avenue in said block
have been numbered. On all streets and avenues running parallel or in the same
general direction with Galena Avenue and lying between 1st Street and Rock
River the lots shall be numbered to correspond with the numbering of the
corresponding or opposite lots on Galena Avenue. (1950 Code)
3-5-10: SYSTEM APPLIED IN NORTH DIXON:
In North Dixon the lot at the northeast corner of North Galena Avenue and Water
Street shall be numbered 102 and the lot at the northwest corner of North
Galena Avenue and Water Street shall be numbered 101. All lots in North Dixon
on streets and avenues running parallel with or in the same general direction
as North Galena Avenue shall have numbers corresponding with the opposite lots
on North Galena Avenue. (1950 Code)
3-5-11: STREETS EAST AND WEST FROM GALENA AVENUE:
Lots on streets running east and west from Galena Avenue and North Galena
Avenue shall be numbered easterly and westerly from said avenue, starting with
numbers 100 and 101 and proceeding in the same manner as is hereinbefore
provided for the numbering of Galena Avenue. (1950 Code)
3-5-12: STREETS RUNNING EAST AND WEST NOT INTERSECTING GALENA AVENUE:
Lots on all streets running east and west that do not intersect with Galena
Avenue or North Galena Avenue shall be numbered to correspond with the lots
directly opposite on parallel streets. (1950 Code)
3-5-13: NUMBERING OF HOUSES REQUIRED:
All owners of houses shall number their houses in conformity with the foregoing
provisions 1 . (1950 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-18.
3-5-14: STREET NAMING COMMITTEE:
All developers of subdivisions or annexed territory to the city be and they are
hereby required to submit street names to the council as part of their
presentations of the plats of their subdivisions to the city for its approval.
(Ord. 556, 7-25-1967; amd. 2020 Code)
3-5-15: NAME CHANGES:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TREES AND SHRUBBERY 1
SECTION:
3-6-1: Planting; Permit Required
3-6-2: Removal; Permit Required
3-6-3: Injury
3-6-4: Advertisements; Notices
3-6-5: Removal Or Pruning Of Hazardous Trees And Shrubs
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 11 of this code.
3-6-1: PLANTING; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to plant any trees or bushes in any public street or
parkway or any other public place or between the curb line and a distance of
five feet (5') inside the property line of any property without first having
secured the permission of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(Ord. 286, 9-15-1959; amd. 2020 Code)
3-6-2: REMOVAL; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any such public place
without first having secured the permission of the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
3-6-3: INJURY:
No person shall injure any tree or shrub planted or growing in any public
place. (1950 Code)
3-6-4: ADVERTISEMENTS; NOTICES:
No person shall attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub
in any public place. (1950 Code)
3-6-5: REMOVAL OR PRUNING OR HAZARDOUS TREES AND SHRUBS:
The Director of Public Works may order the pruning or removal of any tree or
shrub which poses an imminent physical hazard to persons or property. Such
conditions include, but are not limited to, any tree or shrub which overhangs
any sidewalk, street or other public place in such a way as to impede or
interfere with traffic or travel, is unsafe or which, by reason of its nature,
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, other
utilities present or other public improvements, or is infested with any
injurious fungus or insects or other pests. In the event the hazardous tree or
shrub is located upon private property, the Director of Public Works shall
notify the property owner in writing and the property owner shall have sixty
(60) days to comply with the order of the Director of Public Works or to file a
written appeal for review by the council. (2020 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CEMETERY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Management Of Cemetery
3-7-2: Promulgation Of Regulations
3-7-3: Record Of Lots, Values And Sales To Be Kept
3-7-4: Application For Purchase Of Cemetery Lots
3-7-5: Contracts Now In Force To Continue
3-7-6: Superintendent Of Oakwood Cemetery
3-7-7: Custody Of Cemetery
3-7-8: Monthly Report
3-7-9: Payment For Services Rendered
3-7-10: Superintendent To Care For Grounds
3-7-11: Burial Permits Required
3-7-12: Application For Permit; Issuance
3-7-13: Record Of Burial Permits
3-7-14: Record Of Interments
3-7-15: Delivery Of Cemetery Property To Successor
3-7-16: Receipts
3-7-17: Expenditures
3-7-18: Endowments
3-7-19: Dogs Prohibited
3-7-1: MANAGEMENT OF CEMETERY:
The City Manager shall have custody of Oakwood Cemetery and supervision over
the Superintendent of the cemetery and all employees having duties concerned
with the care and maintenance of said cemetery. (Ord. 3040, 5-15-2017)
3-7-2: PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS:
Subject to the approval of the City Council, the City Manager shall prescribe
the rules and regulations for the government of Oakwood Cemetery and the sale
and use of lots therein. (Ord. 3040, 5-15-2017)
3-7-3: RECORD OF LOTS, VALUES AND SALES TO BE KEPT:
The Clerk shall keep an accurate plat of the Oakwood Cemetery and also a record
of the blocks or squares or lots in each division thereof, with the amounts of
the appraised values of the lots or blocks at which the same shall be offered
for sale, and, when sold, the name of the purchaser, the amount sold for, and
the date of sale. (Ord. 102, 2-1-1955)
3-7-4: APPLICATION FOR PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS:
All applications for the purchase of cemetery lots shall be made to the
Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery, to the Clerk, or when it is desired to
purchase any lot the title to which has not yet passed to the City but is yet
vested in a trustee, then to such trustee. All applications must be accompanied
by a down payment of fifty percent (50%) of the purchase price. No conveyance
to the purchaser shall be made until the full amount of the purchase price of
the lot has been paid. All unpaid balances shall accrue interest at the rate of
five percent (5%) per annum. (Ord. 2641, 5-21-2007)
3-7-5: CONTRACTS NOW IN FORCE TO CONTINUE:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be held or taken to impair or modify
the terms of a certain contract entered into on behalf of the City under and by
virtue of the terms of an ordinance entitled "an ordinance to provide for the
purpose of land to be used as an addition to Oakwood Cemetery, to be owned and
controlled by the City of Dixon", passed by the Council July 3, 1903, and
approved by the Mayor July 14, 1903, but said ordinance and any and all
agreements or contracts entered into by virtue thereof, shall be and remain in
full force and effect. (Ord. 102, 2-1-1955)
3-7-6: SUPERINTENDENT OF OAKWOOD CEMETERY:
The Director of Public Works shall be the Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery.
(Ord. 3040, 5-15-2017)
3-7-7: CUSTODY OF CEMETERY:
The Superintendent shall, subject to the direction of the Commissioner of
Public Property and the Council, have the care, control, charge and management
of the cemetery controlled by the City and known as "Oakwood Cemetery". (Ord.
102, 2-1-1955)
3-7-8: MONTHLY REPORT:
The Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery, or other person in charge or control of
the same, shall, on or before the first Monday in each month, furnish to the
Clerk for the information of the Council a report, in writing, showing the
number of interments in the cemetery during the preceding month with the name,
sex, race and color of each person so interred, the date and place of death,
the cause of death, and when practicable, the age, occupation, nationality and
place of residence of the deceased together with a report in detail of receipts
and disbursements. (Ord. 102, 2-1-1955)
3-7-9: PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery to collect from
the persons for whom work or services are performed in the cemetery such
amounts as shall be prescribed from time to time by the City Council. All
foundation work shall be performed by cemetery employees and charges for the
same must be paid in advance prior to commencement of installation. (Ord. 3040,
5-15-2017)
3-7-10: SUPERINTENDENT TO CARE FOR GROUNDS:
The Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery shall have charge of the cemetery
subject to the direction of the City Manager and shall keep and preserve the
buildings, grounds and fences in good order and repair and the monuments,
tombstones, shrubbery and every other thing erected and placed in the cemetery,
for ornament or otherwise, free from injury or defacement and the walks and
avenues in good condition and free from obstructions. He shall enforce the
provisions of this Code in relation to cemeteries and the rules and regulations
established for the government of the same and shall report all violations.
(Ord. 3040, 5-15-2017)
3-7-11: BURIAL PERMITS REQUIRED:
No burial or interment shall take place nor shall the body of any person be
removed without a permit for such burial or removal from the Clerk. No burial
permit shall be issued unless the purchase price of the lot has been paid in
full. No burial or interment shall take place except that of a human being and
no dog, cat or bird or any other previously living animal shall be buried or
interred in Oakwood Cemetery or any part thereof, at any time in the future.
(Ord. 2641, 5-21-2007)
3-7-12: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring a burial permit shall file with the Clerk a certificate, in
writing, signed by the attending physician or coroner, stating the name, age,
sex, nationality, residence and occupation of the deceased, if known, and the
cause or manner of death; and in case of any death where there has been no
attending physician or coroner, the certificate signed by the parent of the
deceased; or, if none, by some member of the family, not a minor; or, if none,
by the resident householder, where the death occurred; or, if none, by any
reputable citizen acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the death.
Upon the filing of such certificate, the Clerk shall issue a burial permit.
In the event of the absence or inability to act of the Clerk, or Deputy Clerk,
the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety is authorized, empowered and
directed to issue such burial permit upon compliance with the requirements of
this section. (1950 Code)
3-7-13: RECORD OF BURIAL PERMITS:
It shall be the duty of the Clerk to enter in a suitable book to be kept in his
office for that purpose, a record of all permits so issued, specifying the date
of issue, and to whom issued, together with all the items of information
contained in the certificates upon which such permits were issued. (1950 Code)
3-7-14: RECORD OF INTERMENTS:
The Superintendent of Oakwood Cemetery, upon receiving the Clerk's permit and
making an interment, shall enter the name of the deceased with the date of
interment and the number of the lot in which interred, in a book to be kept for
such purpose; he shall make no interment without the delivery to him of a
permit. Double stacking of interments is prohibited. (Ord. 2641, 5-21-2007)
3-7-15: DELIVERY OF CEMETERY PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
The Superintendent, upon the appointment of his successor in office, shall
deliver to him all property, books, records, maps and effects of every
description in his possession or under his control belonging to the City or
pertaining to his office; and, in case of his neglect or refusal to deliver the
same, within three (3) days after demand being made therefor, he shall be
subject to the general penalty provided by this Code. (1950 Code)
3-7-16: RECEIPTS:
All monies, receipts, income and revenue from Oakwood Cemetery collected or
received by an officer or employee of the City shall be turned over to the
Clerk who shall give a receipt therefor and keep a separate account of the
revenue. (1950 Code)
3-7-17: EXPENDITURES:
The separate fund provided for in section
3-7-16 of this chapter shall be the primary fund and first applied toward
defraying the expenses of Oakwood Cemetery and the disbursements thereof. The
remaining expenses, if any, shall be paid from the proper appropriation and
levy. (1950 Code)
3-7-18: ENDOWMENTS:
All lots sold in Oakwood Cemetery (including Oaklawn Addition) shall only be
sold with the perpetual endowment thereof provided within the sale price of the
lots. Twenty five percent (25%) of the total sale price of the lots in Oakwood
Cemetery shall be deposited with the Treasurer to create a perpetual care
endowment fund of the lots.
Each and every lot endowed shall, at all times, be kept to a proper and
established grade, well seeded with grass and the grass cut and neatly trimmed
around the base of any and all monuments, trees, shrubbery or bushes placed or
growing thereon. (Ord. 782, 6-3-1974)
3-7-19: DOGS PROHIBITED:
No dog shall be permitted in Oakwood Cemetery. The owner of any dog which is
found within Oakwood Cemetery shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
9-4-7 of this Code. (Ord. 1874, 5-1-1995)
CHAPTER 8
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-8-1: Scope; Definitions
3-8-2: Application For Water Service
3-8-2-1: Connection Restriction
3-8-3: Connection With Water Main
3-8-4: Water Meters
3-8-5: Protection Of Water Division Property
3-8-6: Access To Premises
3-8-7: Discontinuing Of Service For Repairs
3-8-8: Notice To Plumbers And Excavators
3-8-9: Fire Hydrants
3-8-10: Payment Of Water Bills
3-8-11: Cessation Of Water Service
3-8-12: Water Main Extensions For New Subdivisions And Otherwise
3-8-12-1: Water Main Extensions And Subdivision Specifications
3-8-13: Replacing Or Repairing Water Service
3-8-14: Outside Meter Reading Devices (Rep. by Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-15: Water Rates
3-8-16: Intent And Purpose
3-8-17: Cross Connections
3-8-18: Penalty
3-8-19: General Financial Provisions
3-8-20:    Residential Water Service Line Repair Program
3-8-1: SCOPE; DEFINITIONS:
The following rules and regulations specified in this chapter shall be
established by the City. Such rules and regulations shall be controlling in the
use of water to the respective water users of the City in the future.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The person who is responsible for the payment of water
bills.
LARGE USER: Any user who exceeds water usage over 7,479,252 gallons in a month.
OWNER: The actual owner of the property to be supplied with water service.
UTILITY SERVICE FEE: The utility service fee is comprised of the following, as
applicable: a) the actual cost of the installed water meter; b) the deposit
provided for in section
3-8-2 of this chapter; and c) the tapping fee provided for in section
3-8-3 of this chapter.
WATER DIVISION: The Water Division of the City of Dixon, Illinois.
Any references herein to a measurement in diameter shall mean the measurement
of the inside diameter, or the applicable industry standards of measurement
thereto. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 3308, 6-6-2022)
3-8-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
Any customer desiring water service shall make application through the City
website or at City Hall, using forms furnished by the Water Division. The
customer shall make a deposit based upon the size of the water meter to be
installed in accordance with the following schedule:
Meter Size Fee
Meter Size   Fee
5/8" or 3/4" $ 100.00
1"           125.00
11/2"        175.00
2"           225.00
3"           325.00
4"           425.00
6"           625.00
8"           825.00
10"          1,025.00
 
Upon the termination of water service in accordance with this chapter, the
deposit shall be applied to any outstanding balance remaining on the customer's
final water bill. The remainder of the deposit, if any, after payment of the
final water bill shall be returned to the customer. (Ord. 3114, 11-5-2018)
   (A)   If a multiple-family dwelling is served by a single meter, the
appropriate deposit shall be made based upon the size of the water meter to be
installed, plus an additional deposit of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
additional unit.
   (B)   For all properties having more than one tenant and only one meter, the
meter shall be in the landlord's name. The landlord shall be responsible for
payment of the water bills and any damages to said meter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any person owning more than one
property used for leasing to tenants, and provided further that each such
property has more than one meter, then the owner may elect to make a landlord
deposit in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In the event the
amount of the landlord deposit made falls below one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for any reason, the owner shall, within fifteen (15) days of notice
from the City of the same, deposit with the City such amounts as may be
necessary to return the landlord deposit on file to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). In the event the owner fails to return the landlord deposit to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as required in the preceding sentence, the
landlord deposit option made available pursuant to this subsection (C) shall be
unavailable to the owner and such owner shall be required to comply in all
respects with other deposit provisions set forth in this section. (Ord. 3110,
9-17-2018)
3-8-2-1: CONNECTION RESTRICTION:
No customer or owner of property located outside the corporate limits shall be
allowed to connect to the City's waterworks system except where annexation to
the City is legally prohibited. Upon removal of the prohibition, the property
must be immediately annexed to the City.
Connection to the City waterworks system by a customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City shall be allowed only under the following
conditions:
   (A)   The owner of the property to be connected to the City waterworks
system is unable to annex to the City because the property is not adjacent or
contiguous to the City.
   (B)   The owner of the property agrees in writing to petition the City for
annexation to the City when the property becomes contiguous to the City.
   (C)   Annexation to the City can be anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   (D)   The City derives and will continue to derive a significant benefit
from the user or there is a potential economic benefit from the user that the
City will derive.
   (E)   The economic benefit derived by the City shall exceed the cost, if
any, incurred by the City for the extension of such waterworks service.
   (F)   The owner or user shall pay the cost of extending waterworks service
from existing water lines to the extremities of the property for easy access by
future upstream extensions, and all engineering and maintenance costs. The City
may, at its discretion, contribute to the cost of extending the waterworks line
if the City requires the user or owner to install waterworks line of larger
than standard size as defined elsewhere in this Code. (Ord. 1519, 2-20-1990)
3-8-3: CONNECTION WITH WATER MAIN:
The Water Division will make the necessary service connection at the water
main, the cost of which is to be paid by the owner or contractor. The cost is
to be regulated by the Water Division in accordance with the prevailing cost of
labor and materials at the time of installation or replacement.
All new connections from a family dwelling to any water main of the City shall
cost the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for services up to one inch
(1"). This section, however, does not apply to installations where the cost of
such installation has been paid by the developer of a subdivision, or such
other person as may be applicable pursuant to section
3-8-12 of this chapter.
All commercial and industrial connections to any water main of the City shall
require a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) connection fee and a two hundred
fifty dollar ($250.00) tap fee. In addition, there shall be a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) fee if the tapping sleeve and valve are put on by the Water
Division. All materials shall be furnished by the owner or contractor.
The owner shall lay and maintain the service pipe from the water main to the
premises and shall, for single-family dwellings, install a Mueller H-15155 or
A.Y. McDonald 6107BQ curb stop in an easily accessible place near the wall
where the service pipe enters the building. For multiple-family dwellings, the
owner shall install a separate outside shutoff for each dwelling and a "lock
type" stop valve in an easily accessible place near the wall where the service
pipe enters the building. The owner shall also install a valve on the outlet
side of the meter. The owner shall install, on every service pipe, a curb stop
and curb box. The curb stop shall be located within the street right-of-way and
shall be approximately six feet (6') from the property line.
In the event that repairs to the water service are necessary, existing meter
pits must be replaced. The meters must be moved inside the building and the
pits filled in and abandoned.
All new and repaired water service pipes two inches (2") in diameter and
smaller shall be type K soft copper pipe or SDR9 ADS polyflex (200 psi rating)
one inch (1") or greater in diameter. All service pipes larger than two inches
(2") in diameter shall be ductile iron thickness, Class No. 52 cable bond. The
property owner must install a tracer wire from the water main to the premises.
All installations or replacements of water service pipes shall be subject to
the inspection and approval of the City building inspector, consulting engineer
or authorized agent of the Water Division.
The type and manufacture of fire hydrants, valves, street boxes and water
meters must be in accordance with standard specifications approved by the Water
Division. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-4: WATER METERS:
All water used by every water customer shall be measured and recorded with a
water meter. The water meter shall be supplied and installed by the Water
Division and shall be and remain at all times the property of the Water
Division. The Water Division will install meters that are one inch (1") and
smaller into completed plumbing. All other meters shall be installed by the
owner and inspected and approved by the Water Division after installation. For
all new installations, the utility service fee and the costs of installation
shall be paid in full, together with hook-on fees and any other fee due to the
Water Division at City Hall before installation shall be made. All new
installations or remodeling of properties shall have a smartpoint and, in the
Water Manager's discretion, a touchpad. The water meter shall be installed at a
location protected from freezing or heat and other hazards, and the outside
reading device (remote transmitter), if any, shall be installed at a point that
is visible from the front or side street. It shall be the customer's
responsibility to keep the meter from being damaged or frozen. If such damage
or freezing occurs, it shall be the customer's responsibility to pay for the
costs of replacement or repair, including any applicable charges or fees
provided for herein as a result. The cost of all water meters shall be
established from time to time by the Water Manager. Forty five (45) days after
installation of a new meter, the prior meter will be disposed of by the Water
Division. Customers shall have the opportunity, during such forty five (45) day
period, to dispute the accuracy of the removed meter. Any commercial building
served with water service shall include in the meter installation a proper
bypass, approved by the Water Division, which allows for continued use of water
when a meter is removed for maintenance or testing. Lock valves shall also be
included on such bypasses at the owner's expense.
Charges for testing residential, commercial and industrial meters shall be
based on the actual cost for labor and materials expended by the Water
Division. Should the customer desire the test to be made, the Water Division
employee will, in the customer's presence, seal the meter before he leaves the
customer's presence. If the results of the water meter test indicate that the
meter is measuring higher than the standards set forth by the American Water
Works Association (AWWA), then the meter shall be repaired or replaced at no
cost to the customer and all testing fees shall be reimbursed.
When the water meter fails to register, the charge for water used during the
period of non-registration will be determined from an average corresponding
period. When such an average is obviously unfair to either the customer or the
Water Division, an average will be agreed to by both parties. If both parties
cannot agree, all the facts will be submitted to the City Council and their
decision will be final.
Illegal use of water or of property of the Water Division or of the meter
devices shall result in criminal prosecution. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-5: PROTECTION OF WATER DIVISION PROPERTY:
All piping, gauges, appliances, equipment and other devices installed by the
Water Division, and all water meters, regardless of who performed the
installation, which may be in or about the customer's premises shall be and
remain the property of the Water Division. The customer shall protect and be
responsible for such property in the case of loss or damages. Only authorized
agents of the Water Division will be permitted to remove, install or replace
such property. The owner or customer shall maintain free access to all Water
Division property. The owner or customer shall not store or construct any
obstacles which will interfere with the reading, repairing or removal of the
water meter. The owner shall keep his or her curb box and curb stop free from
obstruction so that the water can be turned on or off whenever necessary
without delay. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-6: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Authorized agents of the Water Division shall at all reasonable hours have
access to the premises for the purpose of inspecting the customer's
installation and of reading, repairing, testing, terminating service, restoring
service or removing the water meter or other Water Division property. All
authorized agents of the Water Division can and shall present an identification
card if asked to do so. Upon the presentation of the card, the authorized agent
shall have free access at any reasonable hour to any premises supplied with
City water for the purpose of making an inspection of the entire supply, upon
the premises or reading or repairing the water meter or other Water Division
property. Failure to allow access to premises will result in termination of
service. Cost of terminating service and service restoration will be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-7: DISCONTINUING OF SERVICE FOR REPAIRS:
When it is necessary for the Water Division to interrupt water service for the
purpose of repairing or extending the main, it will endeavor to give notice of
interruption and shut off the water at a time when it will cause the least
inconvenience to the customer. In case of a break in the main or pumping
equipment requiring an immediate shutdown or interruption of service, the Water
Division shall not be required to provide prior notice to its customers. All
boilers or tanks on the customer's premises that are connected directly with
the service pipe shall be provided with reduced pressure zone backflow
preventers that adequately prevent their collapse in the event water is
suddenly shut off. Only persons authorized by the Water Manager shall turn on
or off water valves or curb stops. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-8: NOTICE TO PLUMBERS AND EXCAVATORS:
All plumbers and contractors shall contact the Manager of the Water Division
prior to performing any excavating. The Water Manager or his or her authorized
representatives will mark the appropriate location of any underground water
main or service. The plumber or contractor shall take every precaution to
prevent damage to the water main or service pipe. If any damages do occur, the
plumber or person that caused the damage shall pay the cost of repairing same
to the Water Division. The person causing the damage to the water main or
service shall also be responsible for any other liability resulting from the
broken service pipe or water main. No person shall tap, repair, change or
otherwise disturb the mains or service pipes without the permission of the
Water Manager or his or her authorized representative. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-9: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire Division for the purpose of
extinguishing fires. Persons other than members of the Fire Division and
persons authorized by the Water Manager shall not open or attempt to draw water
from any fire hydrant.
   (A)   Filling of swimming pools from a fire hydrant is prohibited. In
addition, filling of tanker trucks from fire hydrants is prohibited.
   (B)   Any party requesting water from a fire hydrant shall be responsible to
make application at City Hall. The party shall be charged the normal water rate
as specified in this Code, plus a twenty five dollar ($25.00) setting fee and
the required deposit as established from time to time by the Water Division.
The setting fee shall include the installation and removal of a hydrant meter.
The deposit will be applied to the final water bill. In addition, all tanker
trucks must fill at the water plant and not at the hydrants. No hydrant may be
operated without the prior permission of the Water Manager or his or her
designee. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-10: PAYMENT OF WATER BILLS:
   (A)   Billings:
      1.   Due Date; Delinquency: All water bills shall be paid on or before
the due dates as noted on the water bill. A bill becomes delinquent twenty two
(22) days after rendition of the bill for such services. A ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be assessed and added to all delinquent bills. If the bill,
together with any applicable penalty charge, is not paid within such period,
service may be discontinued and terminated pursuant to section
3-8-16 of this chapter. An administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall
be applied to all bills not paid within thirty eight (38) days from the bill
statement period. In such cases where service has been discontinued pursuant to
section
3-8-16 of this chapter, the water service will not be reconnected until the
water bill has been paid in full.
      2.   Billing: Bills and notices shall be mailed to the customer's last
address as shown by the records of the Water Division. If the customer has
elected to receive water bills electronically, said bill will be sent to the
last email address on file with the Water Division.
      3.   Paperless Billing: A customer may elect to receive his, her or its
water bills electronically to the customer's email address.
      4.   Payment: A water bill may be paid: a) online through the City's
website established for such purpose; b) by mail; or c) in person at City Hall.
Failure to receive a water bill will not relieve the customer from his, her or
its obligation to pay the bill.
      5.   Delayed Payment Agreements: The City may, in the discretion of the
Water Manager, enter into a delayed payment agreement with a delinquent
customer. The customer shall comply with such agreement in all respects and,
upon failure to comply, shall be subject to the lien and termination of service
provisions provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Person Responsible For Payment: The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the water service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the City only upon the condition that the owner of
the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable
thereof to the City.
   (C)   Lien Notice Of Delinquency:
      1.   Lien: In the event charges for water service remain unpaid for
twenty two (22) days after rendition of the bill for such services, such
charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and
thereafter such delinquency may constitute a lien upon the real estate for
which service is supplied, and the City Clerk be and is hereby authorized and
directed to file with the County Recorder of Deeds of Lee County a notice of
lien claim at any time after the bill has become delinquent. The filing of such
statement shall be deemed notice of the lien for said water service. This
notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A legal description of the premises served;
         (b)   The amount of money due for such water service; and
         (c)   The date when such amount became delinquent.
      2.   Notification: If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of
the premises and the City has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises, if his or her address be known to the Water Division,
whenever the bill remains unpaid for a period of twenty two (22) days after
rendition of the bill. The notice shall be sufficient to inform the owner of
the premises that the charges or rates have become delinquent and that unpaid
charges may create a lien on the real estate under subsection (C)1 of this
section. The procedure for customer disputes contained in subsection
3-8-16(E) of this chapter shall be available to the owner of the premises
should the owner wish to dispute imposition of the lien on the premises where
service was provided. Failure of the City to mail such notice or the failure of
the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right of the City to file
and foreclose the lien for unpaid bills, as provided in this chapter.
      3.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be foreclosed in the manner as provided by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
      4.   Costs: In all cases where the charges or rates established under
this chapter become delinquent, and it becomes necessary to file a statement
thereof in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds, there shall be added as part of
such delinquent charge the Recorder's fee for the filing of said statement and
the costs verifying the legal description of the property on which such lien is
attached and the City Clerk is hereby directed and authorized to include said
additions in her sworn statements showing such delinquency.
   (D)   Filing Of Notice: When this chapter shall become effective, a copy
thereof properly certified by the City shall be filed in the Office of the
Recorder of Deeds of Lee County and shall be deemed notice to all owners of
real estate of their liability for charges for the water system supplied to any
occupant or user of such service on their property. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-11: CESSATION OF WATER SERVICE:
Whenever a premises is to be vacated or closed for any period of time,
application shall be made to the Water Division to have the water supply shut
off. The Water Division shall then shut off the water and remove (if
applicable) and read the meter. The water customer will then be given a bill
based on the meter reading, along with any additional fees or charges permitted
or required by this chapter. If the customer is moving from the premises, the
deposit will be applied to the final bill. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-12: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS FOR NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHERWISE:
All subdividers shall submit plans for water main extension to the Water
Manager for approval. The plans shall indicate the size and the location of all
water mains, valves and fire hydrants. The plans shall also indicate the size
and location of all lots and streets. After the plans have been approved by the
Water Manager, Consulting Engineers, Building Official, and the Fire Chief, the
plans must then be submitted to the Illinois EPA Division of Public Water
Supplies, Springfield, Illinois, for approval. No work shall be started on any
extension until approval has been received by the Water Division and a
construction permit is received. A new installation shall not be put in service
until after an operating permit has been received by the Water Division. The
entire water system shall be installed by and paid for by the subdivider.
Fire hydrants shall be located at the corner of each block and on the end of
all dead end mains. Intermediate hydrants will be required on long blocks as
required by the Water Manager or City Engineer. All hydrants must be set so
that the center of the nozzle should be not less than eighteen inches (18")
from ground level. The water main shall be extended to the extremities of the
subdivision so that future water main extensions will not require excavation in
the subdivision.
RW valves will be installed on the lead to all fire hydrants. RW valves shall
be located on all but one of the branches at each intersection. In no event
shall RW valves be located more than eight hundred feet (800') apart. The water
main shall be connected into the existing water system at every possible
location. Dead end water mains shall be avoided wherever possible.
In such cases where the subdivider is required to provide larger diameter mains
for future expansion and said subdivider believes he is entitled to additional
reimbursement, he shall appear before the City Council. The City Council will
study the facts of the case and may or may not give additional reimbursement.
The reimbursement is to be made based on the size of the pipe which the City
Council may require be installed and the size main which must be installed in
the subdivision to satisfy the fire flow in each subdivision or instance. This
would be based on eight inch (8") minimum size of the main. The installation of
the water main shall be inspected and the entire installation shall be approved
by the Water Division, the consulting engineer, and the Manager of the Water
Division prior to final acceptance of the subdivision by the City. In such
cases where, after a showing of good cause by the subdivider that the
requirements of this section or of section
3-8-12-1 of this chapter cannot be met, the Water Manager may approve such
suitable replacements as he or she may allow in his or her absolute discretion.
For connections outside the City limits, the following shall apply:
All persons making connections to any main outside of the City limits shall pay
the same hook-on fee, meter and deposit as required within the City. The water
billing rate is one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the rate applicable
within the City limits. Also, the property owner shall sign a written agreement
that the water user will annex his or her property to the City when and if said
property shall become contiguous to said City.
The provisions of this section shall also apply to any water main extensions,
including those not done for the construction of new subdivisions. (Ord. 3110,
9-17-2018)
3-8-12-1: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS AND SUBDIVISION SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   All water mains shall be either PVC or ductile iron pipe and satisfy
the specifications set forth in this section. All water mains shall be minimum
six inches (6") in diameter.
   (B)   Ductile iron pipe (AWWA C-151), Class 52 (AWWA C-150), cement lined
(AWWA C-104) with mechanical or push-on type joints and elastomeric seals
(gaskets) used for push-on joint (ASTM F477).
   (C)   Polyvinyl chloride pipe (PVC) (AWWA C-909), pressure class 235, with
bell and spigot push-on joints and elastomeric gaskets. All service tap
installations up to two inches (2") in diameter must be done utilizing Smith
Blair 315 or 317 tapping saddles or the Cascade equivalent. PVC pipe must be
installed utilizing the Copperhead Tracer Wire System or equivalent as approved
by city.
   (D)   For all water main extensions and improvements, the owner or user will
provide written certification by a registered engineer that the pipe has been
properly installed in accordance with Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois and a written guarantee for workmanship to
all repairs and replacements for five years from the date of acceptance of the
project by city.
   (E)   All water mains shall be pressure tested, disinfected and tested for
contamination prior to putting the system into service; this shall be performed
in accordance with city and state Environmental Protection Agency requirements.
   (F)   All water main fittings shall be Class 52 ductile iron pipe conforming
to AWWA C151 and C111.
   (G)   All ductile iron pipe shall be wrapped in polyethylene encasement and
will meet the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5.4.
   (H)   Polyethylene encasement shall be V-Bio Poly Wrap.
   (I)   All valves shall be gate valves Mueller RW (resilient wedge), Clow RW,
Kennedy RW or the AFC 2500 RW. Valves shall be designed with a direction of
opening to the right (clockwise) with resilient wedge, ductile iron body with
mechanical joint ends.
   (J)   Fire hydrants shall be Mueller Centurion, Clow Medallion or the
Kennedy Guardian K-81 with break flange construction. All fire hydrants shall
be designed with a direction of opening to the right (clockwise) with a six
inch (6") mechanical joint shoe. Hydrants shall have two (2) 2.5-inch hose
nozzles and one integral factory installed five-inch (5") Storz connector. The
nozzles shall have national standard hose threads. All fire hydrant runs shall
have an RW valve installed on them for hydrant maintenance. All fire hydrants
shall be safety orange in color.
   (K)   All new and repaired water service lines two inch (2") in diameter and
smaller shall be type K soft copper pipe or SDR9 ADS polyflex (200 psi rating)
one inch (1") or greater in diameter. All SDR 9 pipe must have a tracer wire
ran with it. Service lines greater than two inches (2") in diameter must be
Class 52 ductile iron pipe or PVC AWWA C-909 pressure class 235 pipe.
   (L)   Curb stops shall be Mueller H-15155 or A.Y. McDonald equivalent.
   (M)   Corporation stops shall be Mueller H-15008 or A.Y. McDonald
equivalent.
   (N)   Curb boxes shall be Mueller H-10300 complete with pentagon nut.
   (O)   Megalugs shall be used for mechanical joint restraints.
   (P) Distribution valve boxes shall be Tyler 664S box with a lid marked
"water." (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 3229, 3-15-2021)
3-8-13: REPLACING OR REPAIRING WATER SERVICE:
   (A)   Between The Water Main And Premises: When a leak or break occurs in a
water service between the water main and the premises, the property owner is
responsible for repair or replacement. If the property owner has not taken
action within twenty four (24) hours after the owner has been notified, the
Water Division shall disconnect or shall cause the service to be disconnected.
The Water Division is authorized to undertake said disconnection by using Water
Division employees or by employing an independent contractor to perform such
service. The property owner shall be responsible for and shall pay all costs
incurred by the Water Division in disconnecting said service. If the Water
Division employees disconnect said service, costs shall be calculated on a time
and material basis; if the Water Division employs an independent contractor to
perform said service, the amount of the charges incurred by the City shall be
paid by the property owner. The property owner shall make payment in full
within thirty (30) days of receipt of said bill. If payment is not made within
said thirty (30) days, the water service shall be disconnected until the bill
is paid in full, plus payment of a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee. The owner shall
also be responsible for any fees for re-establishing service.
   (B)   Pipe One Inch Or Smaller: If a leak or break occurs in a water service
pipe having a one inch (1") or smaller diameter and said water service pipe
supplies more than one premises, then, at the time repairs are undertaken, each
property owner shall cause an individual service line to be installed from the
main to the building on the premises. The cost of such installation shall be
split between the property owners.
   (C)   Serious Damage: The Water Division has the right to shut off any
service leak or break at any time that said leak or break, in the opinion of
the Water Division, is causing or could cause serious damage to the street or
property. The property owner shall pay the Water Division on a time and
material basis.
   (D)   Street Reconstruction: All water services which are not type K soft
copper or SDR9 ADS polyflex (200 psi rating) shall be replaced prior to any
street improvements program where the street surface is completely removed and
thereafter replaced with either a portland cement concrete surface or a
bituminous concrete surface. The property owner may select a plumber of his or
her choice to replace the water service or it will be replaced by the Water
Division at the owner's expense. Water service shall also be extended to vacant
lots containing fifty feet (50') or more frontage. If the Water Division
performs the work, it will charge three hundred dollars ($300.00) to replace
each gooseneck and eight hundred dollars ($800.00) to replace water service
from the water main to the curb stop. The owner shall pay the full amount of
the bill within thirty (30) days to the Water Division. Failure to make said
payment shall result in the water service being terminated until said bill is
paid in full, plus a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee.
   (E)   Razed Properties: Disconnection at the water main shall be required on
all existing services where the property is being razed, except where otherwise
agreed by the Water Manager. Upon failure to do so, the Water Division may
disconnect service or cause the service to be disconnected at the owner's cost.
Owner shall pay all applicable fees and costs permitted under this chapter
which arise from such disconnection. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-14: OUTSIDE METER READING DEVICES:
(Rep. by Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-15: WATER RATES:
   (A)   Basic Water Service Charges: The water service charge for the use of
and for service supplied by the water division of the city shall consist of a
basic user charge, a debt service charge, and a capital improvement charge.
      1.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge is the basic assessment
levied on all users of the city water system and is levied on all users to
recover the operation, maintenance plus replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters.
      The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the annual water volume;
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the Dixon water division, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories; and
         (c)   Compute costs per one (1) gallon.
      2.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall be the amount to
be paid each billing period for payment of interest and principal of debt
outstanding and is computed by apportioning the annual debt service as a fixed
charge per billing period.
      3.   Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is levied
on users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of
the waterworks. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the
annual amount to be accrued as a fixed charge per billing period.
      4.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic
user charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one (1) gallon.
      5.   Adequacy Of Charge Reviewed: The adequacy of the water service
charge shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public
accountants for the water division in their annual audit report. The water
service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local
capital costs or OM&R costs.
      6.   Other Sources Prohibited: No consumer or owner shall procure any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the city waterworks
system.
   (B)   Rates for all metered customers excluding Large Users shall be as
follows:
  FY22
                                       FY22
Basic User Rate           $/User/Month $9.48
Debt Service Rate         $/User/Month $10.26
Capital Improvement Rate  $/User/Month $2.57
Total Fixed Charge        $/User/Month $22.31
Excess Usage Rate
   2,244 - 747,252     $/Gallon     $0.0038
   Gallons
   747,252 - 7,479,252 $/Gallon     $0.0026
   Gallons
   Over 7,479,252 Gallo$/Gallon     $0.0017
 
      1.   Increase In Rates: Each of the rates set forth in subsection (B)
shall automatically increase by 7.5% of the FY22 rates of the total water and
sewer base and usage charges commencing with the July 15, 2022 meter read;
increase an additional 5.7% of the total water and sewer base and usage charges
commencing May 1, 2023; increase by 2.5% of the total water and sewer base and
usage charges on May 1, 2024 and May 1, 2025. The annual percent increase is
cumulative.
      2.   Computation Of Water Service Charge: The water service charge shall
be computed on a per meter basis according to the following formula:
   CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU
Where:  
 CW = Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period
 CC = Capital improvement charge
 CD = Debt service charge
 CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
 Vu = Water volume for the billing period
 X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
 CU = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
 
   (C)   Rates for all Large User metered customers shall be as follows:
  FY2023 FY2024 FY2025 FY2026 FY2027 FY2028
                       FY2023  FY2024   FY2025    FY2026    FY2027    FY2028
Basic User    $/User/  $9.95   $176.00  $352.00   $528.00   $704.00   $880.00
Rate          Month
Debt Service  $/User/  $11.79  $12.30   $13.08    $13.08    $13.41    $13.75
Rate          Month
Capital       $/User/
Improvement   Month    $4.53   $6.42    $6.78     $7.52     $7.71     $7.90
Rate
Total Fixed   $/User/  $26.27  $194.72  $371.86   $548.60   $725.12   $901.65
Charge        Month
Excess Usage   
Rate
   2,244 -          $0.0039
747,252       $/Gallon 0       $0.00446 $0.0050 1 $0.0055 7 $0.0057 1 $0.0058 5
   Gallons
   747,252 -        $0.0026
   7,479,25$/Gallon 7       $0.00290 $0.0031 3 $0.0033 6 $0.0034 4 $0.0035 3
   Gallons
   Over             $0.0017
7,479,252     $/Gallon 4       $0.00185 $0.0019 7 $0.0020 8 $0.0021 3 $0.0021 8
   Gallons
 
      1.   Increase In Rates: Each of the rates set forth in subsection (C) of
this section shall automatically increase by 2.5% per annum over the previous
year on May 1 of each year commencing May 1, 2028.
      2.   Computation Of Water Service Charge: The water service charge shall
be computed on a per meter basis according to the following formula:
   CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU
Where:  
 CW = Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period
 CC = Capital improvement charge
 CD = Debt service charge
 CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
 Vu = Water volume for the billing period
 X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
 CU = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
 
   (D)   Rates For Fire Protection Inside City Limits:
      When hooked to fire protection services and procure all water from the
waterworks system of the water division, per month
 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26
                          FY23   FY24   FY25   FY26
¾" inch line             $0.18  $0.19  $0.19  $0.20
1" line                   $3.98  $4.21  $4.32  $4.42
1¼" line                 $4.98  $5.27  $5.40  $5.53
1½" line                 $5.97  $6.32  $6.47  $6.64
2" line                   $7.97  $8.42  $8.63  $8.85
3" line                   $10.62 $11.23 $11.51 $11.80
4" - 6" fire service main $15.88 $16.79 $17.21 $17.64
8" fire service main      $19.85 $20.98 $21.51 $22.05
10" fire service main     $26.47 $27.98 $28.68 $29.39
Sprinkler heads           $0.03  $0.03  $0.03  $0.03
Yard or wall hydrant      $3.18  $3.36  $3.44  $3.53
 
      When hooked to fire protection services but procure any part of the water
from source other than the waterworks system of the waterworks system of the
water division, per month
 
                          FY23    FY24    FY25    FY26
4" - 6" fire service main $222.32 $235.00 $240.87 $246.89
8" fire service main      $277.92 $293.76 $301.10 $308.63
10" fire service main     $370.59 $391.71 $401.50 $411.54
Sprinkler heads           $0.37   $0.39   $0.40   $0.41
Yard or wall hydrant      $44.47  $47.00  $48.18  $49.38
 
      Said amount shall be billed and paid on a monthly basis and shall be due
within twenty one (21) days of the mailing of the billing statement. Each of
the rates set forth in subsection (D) of this section shall automatically
increase by 2.5% per annum over the previous year on May 1 of each year
commencing May 1, 2026.
   (E)   Rates For Fire Protection Outside City Limits:
      When hooked to fire protection services and procure all water from the
waterworks system of the water division, per month
 
                          FY23    FY24    FY25    FY26
4" - 6" fire service main $63.52  $67.14  $68.82  $70.54
8" fire service main      $79.40  $83.93  $86.03  $88.18
10" fire service main     $105.87 $111.91 $114.70 $117.57
Sprinkler heads           $0.11   $0.11   $0.12   $0.12
Yard or wall hydrant      $12.70  $13.43  $13.76  $14.11
 
      When hooked to fire protection services but procure any part of the water
from source other than the waterworks system of the waterworks system of the
water division, per month
 
                          FY23    FY24    FY25    FY26
4" - 6" fire service main $254.08 $268.57 $275.28 $282.16
8" fire service main      $317.60 $335.71 $344.10 $352.70
10" fire service main     $423.47 $447.61 $458.80 $470.27
Sprinkler head            $0.43   $0.45   $0.47   $0.48
Yard or wall hydrant      $50.82  $53.71  $55.06  $56.43
 
      Said amount shall be billed and paid on a monthly basis and shall be due
within twenty one (21) days of the mailing of the billing statement. Each of
the rates set forth in subsection (E) of this section shall automatically
increase by 2.5% per annum over the previous year on May 1 of each year
commencing May 1, 2026.
   (F)   Water Users Outside City Limits: Rates for water users outside the
city limits shall be an additional fifteen percent (15%). (Ord. 3110, 9-17-
2018; amd. Ord. 3308, 6-6-2022; Ord. 3317, 7-18-2022)
3-8-16: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   Findings: The City Council finds and declares that the provisions of
this chapter are enacted for the following reasons:
      1.   To ensure timely and complete payment of all water charges arising
from water service supply to customers;
      2.   To regulate termination of water services to residential, commercial
and business customers for nonpayment of water charges;
      3.   To provide full and adequate notice to a residential, business or
commercial customer of a termination of water service to that customer and of
the procedure to follow to avoid termination;
      4.   To provide residential, business and commercial customers with the
fair and reasonable opportunity, prior to termination, to dispute the
correctness of water charges;
      5.   To standardize the notice of termination and other notices sent to
residential, business and commercial customers;
      6.   To regulate termination of water services to residential, business
or commercial rental property for nonpayment of water charges;
      7.   To regulate termination of water services to residences, businesses,
commercial or industrial property for failure to comply with section
3-8-2-1 of this chapter; and
      8.   To assure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to water services
supplied to residential, business and commercial customers.
   (C)   Water Bills: On a monthly basis (or quarterly for those customers
without a Sensus water meter) a water bill shall be mailed or emailed, as
applicable, to every water customer for water service supplied during the time
period shown on the bill. Each water bill shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The time period and number of days of water service covered by the
water bill;
      2.   The water charge and/or installment and the water charge due, along
with any applicable discounts;
      3.   The date of the water bill;
      4.   The date when complete payment is due at City Hall, which shall be
at least twenty one (21) days from the date of the water bill;
      5.   Notice whether the water bill is based on actual or an estimated
measurement of the amount of water service supplied;
      6.   Notice that a water charge shown on a water bill is based on an
actual measurement, and which follows one or more bills based on estimated
measurements, may be substantially higher than previous water bills and higher
than the water bills based on estimated measurements;
      7.   Notice that failure to timely and completely pay the amount shown on
the water bill shall result in termination of water service; and
      8.   Notice that residential customers may call City Hall, whose
telephone number shall be listed on the water bill, in order to:
         (a)   Dispute the amount of the water charge;
         (b)   Avoid the termination of water service for nonpayment of the
amounts shown on the water bill;
         (c)   Request the restoration of water service; and
         (d)   Request answers to any other questions regarding water service.
   (D)   Customer Information: The Water Division shall provide information on
the following:
      1.   The procedure to dispute a water bill;
      2.   The procedure to avoid termination of water service due to
nonpayment of water charges;
      3.   The procedure for tenants to avoid termination of water service due
to the landlord's nonpayment of water charges;
      4.   The procedure to obtain reinstatement of water service; and
      5.   The procedure to avoid termination of water service due to failure
to comply with this chapter.
   (E)   Customer Dispute:
      1.   At any time before the date of termination of water service for
nonpayment of the amount shown on the water bill, or for a violation of this
chapter, or for a notice of rejection, a customer may dispute the basis of the
rejection or termination. The customer shall not be entitled to dispute the
basis of termination or rejection if the basis was the subject of a previous
dispute under this section.
      2.   The procedure for customer disputes shall be as follows:
         (a)   Before the date of termination, the customer shall notify the
Manager of the Water Division, orally or in writing that he disputes all or
part of the amounts shown on the water bill, the notice of rejection or notice
of termination, or any other reason for termination, stating as completely as
possible the basis for the dispute.
         (b)   If the Manager of the Water Division determines that the present
dispute is untimely or that the customer previously disputed the basis, the
Manager of the Water Division shall mail to the customer a notice stating that
the present dispute is untimely or invalid. A dispute is untimely if filed
after water service has been terminated. The Water Division shall then proceed
as if the customer had not notified the Water Division of the present dispute.
         (c)   If the Manager of the Water Division determines that the present
dispute is not untimely or invalid under this section, the Manager of the Water
Division, within three (3) days after receipt of the customer's notice, shall
arrange an informal meeting between the customer and the Manager of the Water
Division.
         (d)   Based on the Water Division's records, the customer's
allegations and all other relevant materials available to the Manager of the
Water Division, the Manager shall attempt to resolve the dispute in a manner
satisfactory to both the Water Division and the customer.
         (e)   Within five (5) days of completion of the meeting the Manager of
the Water Division shall mail to the customer a copy of his or her decision
resolving the dispute.
         (f)   If the decision is unsatisfactory to the customer, the customer,
within five (5) days of his or her receipt of the Manager's decision, may file,
in writing with the Manager a request for a formal hearing before the City
Council.
         (g)   The formal hearing before the City Council shall be held within
ten (10) days of the Manager's receipt of the customer's written request.
         (h)   At the hearing, the Manager of the Water Division and the
customer shall be entitled to present all evidence that is, in the City
Council's view, relevant and material to the dispute, and to examine and cross
examine witnesses. A tape recorded (or at the option of the Water Division, a
stenographic) record of the hearing shall be maintained.
         (i)   Based on the record established at the hearing, the City
Council, within five (5) days of the completion of the hearing, shall issue its
written decision formally resolving the dispute. This decision shall be final
and binding on the Water Division and on the customer.
      3.   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve a customer
of his or her obligation to: a) timely and completely pay: 1) all other
undisputed water charges and 2) the undisputed portions of the amounts which
are subject to the present dispute; and b) otherwise comply with this chapter.
Notwithstanding subsection (E)4 of this section, failure to timely and
completely pay all such undisputed amounts or to comply with this chapter,
shall subject the customer to termination of water service in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Until the date of the Manager of the Water Division's or the City
Council's decision, whichever is later, the Water Division shall not terminate
the water service of the customer and shall not issue a notice of termination
to him solely based upon the matters in dispute. If it is determined that the
customer must pay some or all of the disputed amounts, or must take some action
to comply with this chapter, the Manager or the City Council shall promptly
mail to, or personally serve upon the customer a notice of termination, which
shall contain the following:
         (a)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days after the date of the notice of termination; and
         (d)   Notice that unless the Water Division receives complete payment
in the amount shown prior to the date of termination, or that the violation has
been corrected, water service shall be terminated under subsection (F)4 of this
section.
   (F)   Water Service Termination Procedure:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection (E)4 of this section, the
provisions of this section shall govern all terminations of water service for
nonpayment of utility charges or for failure to comply with this chapter.
      2.   If by the payment date shown on a water bill the City has not
received complete payment of the amounts shown on the bill or the violation of
this chapter has not been corrected, the Water Division shall mail to, or
personally serve upon the customer a notice of termination at least three (3)
days after payment date or the date of the violation was to be corrected.
      3.   The notice of termination shall contain the following:
         (a)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days from the date of the notice of termination;
         (d)   Notice that unless the Water Division receives complete payment
of the amount shown or that the violation has been corrected prior to the date
of termination, the water service shall be terminated under subsection (F)4 of
this section; and
         (e)   Notice that in lieu of paying the entire amount shown, a
customer, prior to the date of termination, may notify the utility that he
disputes the correctness of all or part of the amount shown if all or part of
the amount shown was not the subject of a previous dispute under subsection (E)
of this section, or that he disputes that he is in violation of this chapter.
The basis of the dispute shall not have been the subject of a previous dispute
under this chapter.
      4.   If, prior to the date of termination:
         (a)   The Water Division has not received complete payment of the
amount shown on the notice of termination;
         (b)   The customer has not notified the Water Division that he
disputes the correctness of all or part of the amount shown on the notice of
termination;
         (c)   The customer has not notified the Water Division that he
disputes that he has violated this chapter; or
         (d)   The customer has not corrected the violation shown on the notice
of violation;
then the Water Division shall terminate water service provided to the customer
on the date of termination.
      5.   If the Water Division receives payment of the entire amount shown on
the notice of termination or the violation has been corrected prior to the date
of termination, such payment or correction shall be considered timely for
purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Limitations On Termination Of Water Service:
      1.   The Water Division shall terminate water service for nonpayment of
water charges only during hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock
(4:00) P.M., Monday through Thursday. No terminations shall be permitted on a
legal holiday or on the day before a legal holiday.
      2.   No terminations shall be permitted on a day when the low temperature
within the previous twenty four (24) hours, as reported by the National Weather
Service at its first order station nearest the residence, was below zero
degrees Fahrenheit (0°F). If water service to a residential customer has been
terminated and not reinstated by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the day of
termination, when the low temperature within the previous twenty four (24)
hours, as reported by the National Weather Service at its first order station
nearest the residence, was below thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F), the
Water Division shall notify the Police Department on the day of termination of
the following:
         (a)   The name of the customer;
         (b)   The address and location of the residence no longer receiving
water service; and
         (c)   The possible threat to the health and life of all persons
residing at the residence.
      3.   The Water Division shall not terminate water service for nonpayment
of amounts less than twenty dollars ($20.00).
   (H)   Reinstatement Of Water Service: In the event of termination of water
service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the Water Division
shall reinstate water service to the customer within one full working day of
the Water Division's receipt of: 1) complete payment of the amount plus
associated fees whose nonpayment prompted the termination or 2) notice that the
violation has been corrected. Such payment or correction of violation shall not
be considered as timely for purposes of this chapter.
   (I)   Computation Of Time: In computing any period of time prescribed by
this chapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of
time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so
computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday, in which event the period runs until the next day which is not a
Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed is
less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays
shall be excluded in the computation. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-17: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   BACKFLOW: The reversal of flow from that normally intended. The flow of
water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the distributing pipe of a
potable supply of water from any source or sources other than its intended
source.
   CROSS CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance
through which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP: The air gap in a water supply system that is the unobstructed
vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest opening from
any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank or plumbing fixture and the flood
level rim of the receptacle.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: The water supply system maintained in addition to
the public water supply system, including, but not limited to, water systems
from ground or surface resources, or water from a public water supply which in
any way has been treated, processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or
stored in other than an approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY OR PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: The water system maintained by
the City of Dixon by and through its Water Division.
   (B)   Compliance With Existing Laws: All plumbing installed within the City
shall be installed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Admin.
Code 890). If required by the State Plumbing Code, or in the discretion of the
Water Manager, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Water Manager shall give notice
to the water customer to install such a device. The approved device shall be
purchased and installed at the water customer's sole expense and at the
location designated by the Water Manager. Said installation shall comply with
any and all applicable Federal, State and local regulations. The owner shall
further, at his or her own expense, cause the backflow prevention device to be
tested annually by a plumber licensed and qualified to install and test such
backflow prevention devices. The owner shall be required to maintain the
backflow prevention device in a state of repair as to prevent any backflow or
contamination of the public water supply.
   (C)   Cross Connection: Cross connection of the public water supply system
and any other water supply system or source, including, but not limited to, the
following is prohibited:
      1.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply;
      2.   Between a public water supply system and a submerged inlet;
      3.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system;
and
      4.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank
or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
   (D)   Local Cross Connection Control Program: The City shall develop a
comprehensive control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross
connections and removal of all existing cross connections and prevention of all
future cross connections. The City has hired a third party provider to oversee
its cross connection control program. Said party reviews, manages and maintains
this information on behalf of the City.
   (E)   Corrections And Protective Devices: Any user of the public water
supply system shall obtain written approval from the Water Division of any
proposed corrective action or protective device intended to eliminate or
prevent a cross connection before its use or installation. The time allowed for
completion of the necessary corrective action required to eliminate cross
connections shall be dependent upon the degree of hazard involved and the time
required to obtain and install the equipment. If the cross connection has not
been removed within the time as hereinafter specified, the City shall
physically separate the public water supply system from the on site piping
system in such a manner that the two (2) systems cannot be connected by persons
other than employees of the Water Division.
   (F)   Piping Identification: When a secondary water source is used in
addition to the public water supply system, the public water supply and the
secondary water piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and
so maintained that each pipe may be readily traced in its entirety to its
origin in order to protect the public water supply at the service connection in
a manner acceptable to the Water Division.
   (G)   Private Water Storage Tanks: A private water storage tank supplied
from the public water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water supply
unless it is designed and approved for potable water usage.
   (H)   Elimination Of Existing Cross Connections: Within one year from the
effective date of this section all existing cross connections to the water
supply system shall be eliminated. The expenses of such elimination shall be
that of the property owner on which such cross connection exists.
   (I)   Inspection: The Water Division or any representative thereof shall
have the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of an
existing cross connection and to order the elimination of such cross
connection. Any new plumbing system shall be inspected by a licensed plumber
certified by the State as a cross connection control device inspector. (Ord.
3110, 9-17-2018)
   (J)   Discontinuance Of Water Service: The Water Division is hereby
authorized to discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any person
owning any property where a cross connection exists in violation of this Code.
The Water Division may take such other measures as necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such cross connection has been
eliminated. The Water Division may immediately disconnect any water service,
after verbal notice to the occupant of the premises, when there exists an
imminent danger of harmful contamination to the public water supply system at
any premises served by the City water system. Within a reasonable time after
such immediate disconnection, the Water Division shall provide written
notification to the customer of the cause for disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Water Manager or the State Environmental
Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. All expenses incurred
for the disconnection and restoration of the water service will be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 3114, 11-5-2018)
   (K)   Reimbursement For Cleanup Of Water Supply: Any water customer
responsible for back-siphoned or back-pressured material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall pay and reimburse
the City for all costs of elimination of the contamination and cleanup of the
potable water supply system caused by such cross connection or backflow.
   (L)   Prohibition: No user of the City water supply system shall cause or
allow any cross connection to exist on his or her premises. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-
2018)
3-8-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2080, 4-20-
1998)
3-8-19: GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Revenue: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
waterworks system shall be deposited in the operations and maintenance account
of the Water Division. The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from
the waterworks system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation
of the system. All such revenues and monies shall be deposited by the City
Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt or at such more frequent
intervals as may be from time to time directed by the City Council. The City
Treasurer shall administer such funds in accordance with this Code and the
Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   Accounts: The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks system. At regular annual intervals the City Council shall cause to
be made an audit of the books of the waterworks system by an independent
auditor. Said audit shall reflect the annual revenues and expenses of the
system, including replacement costs. Said financial information shall also
include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received for the current fiscal
year;
      2.   Billing data to show the total number of gallons billed for the
fiscal year;
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      4.   Number of users connected to the waterworks system; and
      5.   Number of non-metered users.
   (C)   Access To Records: The Illinois EPA or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Water
Division, which are applicable to the waterworks system for the purpose of
making an audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of any loan agreement between the City and the
Illinois EPA or any special or general conditions of any grant received by the
City from the State of Illinois. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-8-20: RESIDENTIAL WATER SERVICE LINE REPAIR PROGRAM:
   (A)   Creation Of Program: There is hereby established a Residential Water
Service Line Repair Program which shall be utilized for the purpose of
assisting Eligible residential properties with the timely repair, replacement
and/or relocation of leaking service lines, and the costs associated therewith.
   (B)   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
                               An owner or his, her or its designee, or an
APPLICANT:                     entity engaged in a service line repair with
                               respect to the eligible residential property.
DEPARTMENT:                    The City of Dixon Water Department.
DIRECTOR:                      The City of Dixon Public Works Director.
                               Any owner-occupied real estate identified by a
                               single parcel identification number (PIN) which
                               is assessed as residential property containing
                               not more than four (4) dwelling units. To
ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: qualify as Eligible Residential Property, the
                               owner/applicant shall be current on all water
                               and sewer bills with respect to the real estate,
                               including the charge levied pursuant to section
                               3-8-20(C)1.
                               The repair, patching, relocation or replacement
                               of a leaking service line due to a failure of
                               the same, including (I) the repair and
                               replacement of the corporation stop, curb stop
                               and shut-off boxes; (ii) pipe up to two inches
                               (2") in diameter; (iii) street permits; (iv)
                               street and sidewalk repairs; and (v) all
                               digging, replacement of dirt and seeding of
                               affected areas resulting from any of the
                               foregoing. Eligible Service Line Repairs shall
                               be made to the nearest curb stop. An Eligible
                               Service Line Repair shall also include required
                               repairs pursuant to section 3-8-13(B) with
                               respect to common service lines, but only for
                               that portion of the new service lines between
ELIGIBLE SERVICE LINE REPAIR:  the water main and the nearest curb stop. An
                               Eligible Service Line Repair shall not include
                               (I) any work that includes any portion of the
                               service line piping from the curb stop to the
                               eligible residential property or any plumbing
                               located on the inside of or under any structure;
                               (ii) repair or replacement of service lines
                               damaged as a result of freezing, earthquakes or
                               other acts of God; (iii) replacement of lead
                               service lines with alternative material; (iv)
                               the location or relocation of service lines and/
                               or curb stops exclusive of the need for repairs;
                               (v) replacement of landscaping or ornamental
                               fixtures; or (vi) repair or replacement of
                               service lines damaged due to the negligence or
                               intentional conduct of the owner or occupant of
                               the eligible residential property.
MANAGER:                       The City of Dixon Water Department Manager or
                               his or her designee.
OWNER:                         The owner or owners of an eligible residential
                               property.
                               The City of Dixon Residential Water Service Line
PROGRAM:                       Repair Program, as the same may be amended from
                               time to time.
                               That portion of an eligible residential
                               property's water service line piping, including
                               related valves and connectors, which extend
                               beyond the water mains owned and operated by the
                               city, and distribute water to and including the
                               curb stop located nearest to the water main, but
SERVICE LINE:                  shall not include any portion of the service
                               line piping from the curb stop to, inside or
                               under any structure on the eligible residential
                               property, and shall not include the water meter
                               or any facilities otherwise owned by the city.
                               The Service Line is not owned by the city and
                               the city does not assume any ownership of the
                               Service Line by participation in the program.
                               Shall mean the repair of a defective service
                               line necessary to relieve immediate danger to
SERVICE LINE REPAIR EMERGENCY: the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
                               The determination of whether or not a service
                               line repair emergency exists is in the sole
                               discretion of the Manager or the Director.
 
   (C)   Residential Water Service Line Repair Fund: A special revenue fund, to
be designated as the Residential Water Service Line Repair Fund, shall be
created and used in conjunction with the program in which there shall be
deposited all monies collected by the city pursuant to this section.
      1.   The Residential Water Service Line Repair Fund shall be funded by
the implementation and collection of a fixed charge in the amount of one dollar
ninety five cents ($1.95) per billing period, which amount shall be levied
against every owner-occupied real estate identified by a single parcel
identification number (PIN) which is assessed as residential property
containing not more than four (4) dwelling units. Such charge shall not be
levied against any real estate for which the owner has opted out of the program
pursuant to subsection 4. hereof.
      2.   All monies received thereby shall be deposited in the Residential
Water Service Line Repair Fund, together with all interest generated thereon,
and shall stand appropriated upon receipt for payment of costs, fees and
expenses reasonably associated and necessary to administer and carry out the
provisions of this section.
      3.   The City of Dixon Finance Office shall administer and disburse
monies from the Residential Water Service Line Repair Fund in accordance with
this section upon the authorization of the Manager or Director.
      4.   The owner of any real estate being assessed the charge levied
pursuant to subsection 1. hereof may opt out of the program at any time. The
owner of such real estate may thereafter rejoin the program at any time;
provided, that the program may not be utilized for any service line leaking
prior to the date of rejoining the program. To this end, city staff shall
inspect the applicable service line for leaks prior to the rejoining of the
program becoming effective. Opting out/opting in shall be done in writing and
on forms provided by the city and available at city hall.
   (D)   Application For Service Line Repair: An applicant may submit an
application to the Department for an eligible service line repair, on the form
or forms as may be utilized by the Department from time to time, which
application shall contain the following minimum information:
      1.   A statement from the applicant certifying that:
         (a)   Applicant has the authority to apply for the eligible service
line repair;
         (b)   The proposed eligible service line repair is located at and is
for the benefit of eligible residential property;
         (c)   The service line is owned by the owner, not the city, and that
participation in the program does not result in the city having ownership of
the service line;
         (d)   Applicant understands that the performance of the eligible
service line repair is subject to and conditioned upon the existence of
adequate funds in the city's Residential Water Line Service Repair Fund, and
that all costs for repair in excess of the program limits, as described in this
section, shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or owner and not the
City;
         (e)   Applicant acknowledges that by submitting an application for
eligible service line repairs, the city will engage a licensed contractor to
perform said repairs, and that applicant expressly consents to the work
necessary for the repair on, under and about the eligible residential property;
         (f)   Applicant will not interfere with the work necessary for the
eligible service line repair, and that applicant shall reimburse the city for
all expenses incurred by it on his, her or its behalf in the event that
applicant withdraws permission to proceed or otherwise interferes with
performance of the eligible service line repair work;
         (g)   Applicant acknowledges that the city is not responsible for the
acts of the licensed contractor making the eligible service line repair, and
That applicant and owner shall indemnify the city and hold the city harmless
from and against any and all claims arising out of or in connection with their
participation in the program;
         (h)   Neither applicant, owner, nor anyone on their behalf will make
any claim against or seek any damages or relief from the city arising out of or
in connection with the eligible service line repair or participation in the
program; and
         (i)   If, as part of an eligible service line repair, the Manager or
Director determine that additional repairs not covered by the program are
required, the owner/applicant shall complete such repairs, at his, her or its
expense, within fifteen (15) days of the eligible service line repair or at
such other time as may be agreed to by the Manager or Director in writing.
      2.   A statement indicating whether the applicant or owner(s) of the
eligible residential property are insured for all or part of the cost of the
eligible service line repairs and the applicable amount received or expected to
be received therefrom;
      3.   Satisfactory proof of ownership, or written permission by the owner
thereof, as to all premises on, over and under which the proposed eligible
service line repair is to be done;
      4.   Satisfactory proof that there are no delinquent or outstanding water
service bills owed to the city by the applicant or owner; and
      5.   A written description or report from the Department that the service
line is defective and/or damaged and that an eligible service line repair is
necessary. Such written report shall specify the nature and location of the
defect, to the extent possible, in such detail that the Manager may adequately
determine both the nature of the defect and the requirements to be identified
for the eligible service line repair. The Manager may, in his or her
discretion, accept a written description or report from a licensed plumber in
lieu of the same from the Department.
   (E)   Selection Of Contractor For Eligible Service Line Repairs:
      1.   The Department shall maintain, and update from time to time, a list
of all licensed contractors maintaining their principal place of business
within twenty (20) miles of the city and that are licensed to perform service
line repairs.
         (a)   The Manager may remove the name of any contractor from the list
for good cause, including but not limited to the contractor's (1) failure to
respond to a prior request for estimates or quotes; (2) failure to enter into a
contract for eligible service line repairs after selection by the city; (3)
failure to perform service line repair work in a timely or professional manner;
(4) failure to maintain all required licenses, bonds and insurance to perform
the eligible service line repair work; (5) failure to comply with the
department's rules and regulations with respect to service line repair work;
(6) poor occupational health and safety compliance; or (7) any other cause
determined by the manager, in his or her reasonable discretion, which would
adversely affect the contractor's ability to perform the eligible service line
repair required hereunder.
         (b)   All contractors must possess the necessary equipment and ability
to perform The eligible service line repairs, including but not limited to
items such as a backhoe/excavator, dump truck, jack hammer, parts for repair,
traffic control and adequate staffing.
      2.   Upon the submission of an application for an eligible service line
repair, the Manager shall solicit quotes for the eligible service line repair
from the contractors maintained on the Department's list. All quotes shall be
submitted to the Manager. The Manager shall have the authority to reject any
and all non-conforming quotes received.
      3.   A contract for the eligible service line repairs shall be awarded to
the lowest responsible contractor. In determining the lowest responsible
contractor, the Manager shall consider:
         (a)   Price;
         (b)   The ability, capacity and skill of the contractor to perform the
eligible service line repair;
         (c)   Whether the contractor can perform the eligible service line
repair promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (d)   The character, reputation and experience of the contractor;
         (e)   The quality of performance of previous service line repairs;
         (f)   The previous and existing compliance by the contractor with the
laws and ordinances relating to service line repairs;
         (g)   The ability of the contractor to provide future maintenance and
service relating to the eligible service line repair; and
         (h)   Any conditions attached to the quote for eligible service line
repair.
      4.   The Manager is authorized to execute, on behalf of the city, a
contract for eligible service line repairs from the lowest responsible
contractor. All contracts awarded pursuant to this section are subject to
approval by the Manager and shall be approved as to form by the city's legal
counsel. Any contract awarded pursuant to this section shall provide, at a
minimum:
         (a)   A representation from the contractor that it shall have and
maintain throughout the duration of the contract, in commercially reasonable
amounts, a general liability insurance policy naming the city and the
applicant/owner as an additional insured, and Workers' Compensation insurance
in such minimum amounts as required by applicable law;
         (b)   A representation that the contractor shall comply in all
respects with the Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.) and shall pay
the equivalent of prevailing wage to each of its employees performing the
eligible service line repair;
         (c)   A statement acknowledging that the applicant or owner(s) of the
eligible residential property on whose property the repair is to be performed
is a third-party beneficiary to the contract;
         (d)   That the contractor shall be responsible for securing and
obtaining all necessary permits for the eligible service line repair and for
contacting JULIE, Inc. for a "locate request" prior to performing any
excavation;
         (e)   That the contractor shall be paid only upon satisfactory
completion of the eligible service line repair and after approval by all
applicable agencies, including the Department and the Illinois Department of
Public Health;
         (f)   That the contractor shall not discriminate against any potential
or current employee based on race, color, religion, sex or national origin or
any other protected category as may be defined under Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 (42 USC §2000(e) et. seq.) from time to time;
         (g)   A warranty against defects in workmanship for a period of at
least one (1) year following completion and approval of the eligible service
line repair; and
         (h)   A general indemnification from the contractor that he, she or it
will indemnify and hold the city harmless from and against any and all claims
arising out of or made in connection with the eligible service line repair
work.
      5.   Any change from the contracted amount for the eligible service line
repair must be approved by a written change order and authorized by the
Manager.
      6.   If the quote from the lowest responsible contractor exceeds the
maximum dollar amount available for any eligible service line repair pursuant
to this program, the Manager shall contact the applicant prior to executing a
contract for said repairs. If the applicant desires to proceed with the
contract, then he, she or it must issue a written notice to the city of the
same, whereupon the applicant shall jointly execute such contract for repair
with the city. By jointly executing the contract for the eligible service line
repair, applicant shall agree, represent and warrant to the city and to the
contractor that applicant will be responsible for the payment of all sums in
excess of the maximum dollar amount available from the program.
      7.   If the Manager determines, after a reasonable effort to solicit
quotes or because of a service line repair emergency that it is not practicable
to secure the same, he or she shall prepare a full and complete statement of
the reasons therefore, including the names of all contractors contacted, and
shall file such report with all other papers maintained by the city relating to
the eligible service line repair. In such event, the Manager shall be
authorized to award a contract for the eligible service line repair to any
qualified contractor, subject to the conditions set forth in subsection (e)(5)
of this section.
   (F)   Completion Of Eligible Service Line Repairs; Program Limits:
      1.   All eligible service line repairs shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Manager. Upon satisfactory completion of the eligible
service line repairs, in accordance with the terms of the contract and the
requirements set forth in this section, the city shall pay to the contractor
the agreed upon contract price from the Residential Water Service Line Repair
Fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city's obligation to pay the same
shall be offset by any insurance proceeds received by the applicant, owner and/
or contractor for the same. In addition, if the applicant, owner and/or
contractor receive any supplemental insurance payments following payment from
the city, the city shall be reimbursed in the amount of such supplemental
insurance payment.
      2.   The maximum dollar amount to be paid by the city for any eligible
service line repair is twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). Any amounts in
excess of the foregoing shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or
owner.
      3.   The city shall not be responsible for the payment or coordination of
any non-eligible service line repairs.
      4.   All eligible service line repairs are contingent upon the
availability of funds in the city's Residential Water Service Line Fund
sufficient to cover the costs of said repair or otherwise pay the maximum
dollar amount allocated for such repairs as limited by this section.
   (G)   Rules And Regulations: The Manager is charged with the administration
of this section and may adopt such reasonable rules and regulations as may be
necessary to administer the same in an effective, efficient and timely manner.
(Ord. 3183, 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 9
SEWERS AND DRAINS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Applications
3-9-3: Street Openings
3-9-4: Connections
3-9-5: Privy Vaults; Cesspools
3-9-6: Floor Drainage
3-9-7: Prohibited Substances
3-9-8: Stormwater Drains
3-9-9: Unlawful Discharge Of Sewage
3-9-10: Unassessed Property; Connection Permit; Fee
3-9-11: Protection Of Water Supply
3-9-12: Costs; Indemnity
3-9-13: Building Sewers
3-9-14: Grease; Oil; Sand Interceptors
3-9-15: Flow Equalizing Facilities
3-9-16: Suitable Control Manhole
3-9-17: Analyses Of Water; Wastes
3-9-18: House Sewer Service
3-9-19: Protection From Damage
3-9-20: Powers; Authority Of Inspectors
3-9-21: Company Not Liable; Negligence
3-9-22: Right To Enter; Work On Easement
3-9-23: Permit System
3-9-24: Special Agreement
3-9-25: Validity
3-9-26: Penalties
3-9-27: Wastewater Service Charges And Collection Of Charges
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under the laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/L).
BASIC USER CHARGE: The assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system for operation, maintenance and replacement expenses.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official for the City of Dixon.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: The capital improvement charge is levied on users
to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage
system. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual
amount to be accrued as a fixed charge per billing period.
CITY: The City of Dixon.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which receives wastewater, storm, surface and ground
water drainage.
COMMERCIAL USER: Transit, lodging, wholesale and retail establishments or
places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial or
commercial wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an
interior drop. The purpose of the "control manhole" is to provide access for a
City representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
principal and interest costs of all outstanding sewerage revenue bonds.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for specific use of the land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from handling, storage and the sale of food.
HOLDING TANK WASTE: Scum, liquid, wastewater, or other wastes from a tank
designed to provide temporary storage of wastewater and which is not connected
to an absorption field or other wastewater disposal system.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined herein.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities involving
the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance into
products.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal, State and local governments.
LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that:
   (A)   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday.
   (B)   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Dixon sewerage system.
   (C)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act.
   (D)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in compliance with the
issuance of an NPDES (national pollutant discharge elimination system) permit
to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, in
that treatment works or upon the quality of the effluent from the treatment
works.
MANAGER: The Manager of the City of Dixon wastewater treatment works, or his or
her authorized agent or representative.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is one thousandth gram (0.001 g) of the constituent in one
thousand milliliters (1,000 mL) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly
used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent in
reporting the results of wastewater analysis.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Environmental Protection Agency, after enactment of the Federal Clean Water Act
to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal
Act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
PPM: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any or all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on the treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewerage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD5 and
0.20 pound of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the City sanitary sewer
system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with City funds.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
permanent multi-family dwellings.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
SEPTAGE: Scum, liquid, sludge, or other wastes from a septic tank, closing
chamber, soil absorption field, or seepage pit. This term does not include the
waste from a grease trap.
SEWAGE: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures for treating
sewage. Used interchangeably with "wastewater treatment plant".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or other waste liquids, including
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principle accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the waterworks and/or sewerage system. These revenues shall
be segregated so that water system revenues shall be credited to the waterworks
account and revenues of the sewerage system shall be credited to the Sewerage
Fund.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour flows during normal operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
STORM DRAIN/STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the debt service charge, the fixed
administrative service charge and the basic user charge which is levied on
those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration
values established for average strength sewage as defined herein.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of a quality equal to or better than the criteria in
effect of water that would not cause a violation of the receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facility.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
USER CHARGE: The charge levied to users of treatment works for the cost or
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial, or industrial as described herein.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes for the residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per month (quarterly if the customer is
not served by a Sensus water meter) levied on all users of the wastewater
facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in section
3-9-27 of this chapter and consist of the total of a debt service charge, a
fixed administrative service charge, a basic user charge, capital improvement
charge and a surcharge where applicable.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "sewage treatment plant", "wastewater treatment plant".
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of the
State of Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 3309, 6-6-2022)
3-9-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be made to the
building official and shall be accompanied by an application form including the
purpose of the connection, the premises to be served, and the specifications of
the pipe for construction from the building to the sewer pipe. Such application
shall be reviewed by the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements and
the Manager; and no such permit shall be issued unless they shall find the
provisions of this Code will be complied with in making such connection.
A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall be
allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage facilities,
including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities, have
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional
anticipated waste load. Permits for the construction and/or hookup shall be
obtained from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency when required. (Ord.
3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-3: STREET OPENINGS:
Chapter 2 of this title relating to the excavations in streets and public
rights-of-way shall be complied with in making excavations in streets and
public rights-of-way or other public places for the purpose of making sewer
connections.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights in accordance with Illinois Department of
Transportation standards so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of work
shall be restored to its original condition before excavation. (Ord. 1546, 7-
16-1990)
3-9-4: CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   The connection of any drain or pipe with the City sewer system shall
be made under the direction of the Manager or his or her representative or some
person under his or her direction. All materials for connections and pipes for
drains from the buildings or structures to sewers shall conform to
specifications which may be approved and adopted from time to time by the
Council and kept on file with the building official.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable regulations of the City. All such connections shall be made gastight
and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Manager or his or her representative before installation.
   (C)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Manager or
building official when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under supervision
of the Manager or his or her representative.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the building official. (Ord.
3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-5: PRIVY VAULTS; CESSPOOLS:
Privy vaults, cesspools and septic tanks shall not be constructed at any place
within the City where a water supply and sanitary sewer are available. Any
privy vaults, cesspools or septic tanks existing on premises accessible to a
water supply and sanitary sewer system shall be abandoned in an approved manner
as specified by the building official.
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within two
hundred feet (200') of the property line. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-6: FLOOR DRAINAGE:
Floor drains in garages shall be approved by the building official before
installation. Such drains shall have intercepting mud or grease traps adequate
to prevent the flow of oil, grease or mud into the sewer system; other floor
drains may be permitted to drain into sanitary sewers where construction has
been approved by the building official. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-7: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create a hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/L) as CN in the wastes
discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers of other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails
and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, water or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Manager that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewerage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Manager, in consultation with the City Engineer, Building Official,
and the County Health Department, will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject wastes in relation to flows and the velocities in the
sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of the treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances that are prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F). (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/L) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred degrees
Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.78°C). (Ord. 3114, 11-5-2018)
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the
Manager.
      4.   Any wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Manager for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Manager as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Manager in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which may exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions) capable of causing a visible color in the
plant effluent.
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow, or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Water and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge to the receiving waters.
      11.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the City in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      12.   Any cyanide in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/L) at any
time except as permitted by the City in compliance with State and Federal
regulations.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection (B) of this section, and which in
the judgment of the Manager, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Manager may:
      1.   Reject the wastes,
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of section
3-9-27 of this chapter.
If the Manager permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Manager, and subject to the requirement of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws, of the City of Dixon, County of Lee,
and State of Illinois.
   (D)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at the request of the Manager, provide laboratory
measurements, tests, and analyses of water and wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and by any other conditions for discharge established by the
City or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over discharge. The number,
type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall
be stipulated by the City. The owner shall, upon request, report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the Manager. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the City. At
such times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service. (Ord.
3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-8: STORMWATER DRAINS:
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwaters,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
   (C)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the building official. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Manager to a
storm sewer or natural outlet. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-9: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE:
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-10: UNASSESSED PROPERTY; CONNECTION PERMIT; FEE:
Any property owner of the City whose property was not assessed for the
installation of a sanitary sewer and who shall desire to connect his property
with the existing sanitary sewer system shall first make application to the
building official for a permit to connect with the sanitary sewer system. The
building official is hereby authorized to issue a permit for such sewer
connection upon payment by the applicant to the City of an amount of money
equal to the sum which was paid by the other property owners by special
assessment at the time of installation of the sewer to which the applicant
desires to be connected, but in no event or instance shall the charge for a
permit for connection with the sewer system be less than the sum of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for detached single-family dwellings and less than the
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for all other properties.
In the event that the property owner desires to connect with the interceptor
sewer system of the City, which interceptor sewer system was installed by
general taxation, rather than special assessment, then the charge for
connecting with the interceptor system shall be the sum of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per connection for detached single-family dwellings and one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for all other properties. Application for a permit
to connect to the interceptor sewer system shall be made to the building
official and payment made as provided herein. (Ord. 3135, 4-15-2019)
3-9-11: PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY:
All underground sewage construction and facilities within a distance of seventy
five feet (75') radially from all Municipal water supply wells shall be
constructed in conformity with the minimum requirements of the Department of
Public Health of the State. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-12: COSTS; INDEMNITY:
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and maintenance
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation, connection or maintenance of the building sewer. (Ord.
1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-13: BUILDING SEWERS:
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the building official, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-14: GREASE; OIL; SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Manager and building official, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-15: FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-16: SUITABLE CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the Manager, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Manager. The manhole shall
be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him
so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-17: ANALYSES OF WATER; WASTES:
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. ln the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-18: HOUSE SEWER SERVICE:
   (A)   General: House sewer service connections to the sanitary sewer mains
of the City shall be effected with the use of approved materials and procedures
as hereinafter described.
   (B)   Connections: Connections used in this section shall be deemed to mean
any private connection to any sewer pipe which is maintained by the City.
   (C)   Sanitary Sewer Main: Sanitary sewer main shall mean the pipe to which
the house sewer service connection is made.
   (D)   Connections; How Made: Approved types of house service connections
shall be one of the following:
Approved pipe and fittings shall be ductile iron, concrete pipe, vitrified
clay, asbestos cement, polyvinyl chloride, or acrylonitrile-butadiene-stryene,
PVC pipe shall be a minimum schedule 40. All materials for building connections
shall be approved by the building official before installation and shall meet
the requirements as established in the latest edition of the State Plumbing
Code.
Service sewers shall be connected to the tee, wye, or riser provided in the
public sewer where such is available, utilizing approved fittings or adapters
installed in accordance with manufacturer's specifications. Where no tee, wye,
or riser is provided or available, connection shall be made by machine made tap
and suitable saddle, or other method as approved by the building official.
Type 1: Vitrified clay wye branches installed in the main sewer at the time of
construction. Connections to existing wye branches shall be made with an
approved type of joint material of the bituminous type or an approved
compression coupling. The connection shall be completely watertight. No
connection shall be allowed to any damaged wye branch. If damage occurs during
the making of the connection, the wye branch shall be taken out of the main
sewer by the plumber and replaced either by another undamaged wye or by
straight vitrified clay pipe. If straight pipe is used in the replacement,
other approved connection methods shall be used. Concrete encasement of the wye
branch, connection joint, or any other part of the connection shall not be
deemed watertight and shall not be allowed as a method of repairing a damaged
joint.
Type 2: Connection of the saddle type installed in the main sewer: Connections
of this type shall be made in a smooth, round hole, machine drilled into the
main sewer pipe. The fitting used in the connection shall be made in such a
manner as to ensure that no protrusion of the fitting into the main sewer pipe
shall result. The connector shall fit perfectly the contour of the inside of
the sanitary sewer and shall be specifically designed to fit the particular
size main sewer pipe into which the connection is made. The machine drilled
hole shall be of such size to provide one-eighth inch (1/8") clearance between
the outside of the fitting and the hole. The space thus provided shall be
completely filled with joint material. The space between the shoulder of the
fitting and the face of the main sewer pipe shall be one-eighth inch (1/8")
thick and this space shall also be completely filled with joint material.
The joint material used for the type 2 house service connection shall be
completely waterproof and shall be capable of withstanding any condition of
stress or strain likely to be encountered in normal sanitary sewer construction
or maintenance. Concrete encasement will not be considered waterproof.
The fitting shall be manufactured of either cast aluminum alloy or vitrified
clay and shall be capable of receiving all normally used types of pipes for
house service connections.
The type 2 fitting and drilling machine herein described shall be of the type
manufactured by Smith & Loveless, Division-Union Tank Car Company, Lenexa,
Kansas, or the approved equal.
   (E)   Type 1 And 2 Connections; When And Where Used: Type 1 connections may
be used in existing sanitary sewers when wye branches previously installed are
readily and conveniently available. If existing wye branches cannot be found
readily or are not located properly for providing the needed service, type 2
connections shall be made. When new sanitary sewers are constructed, type 1
connections may be made in cases where the connection to the house is made
during construction and before backfilling of the sanitary main sewer trench.
Type 2 connections shall be made in all cases where house services are
installed subsequent to construction and backfilling operations.
   (F)   Enforcement: All connections shall be subject to inspection by the
sewer inspecting agent of the City, and permits shall be required for each and
every connection. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-19: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-20: POWERS; AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The building official, Manager and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provision of this chapter. The Manager or
his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-21: COMPANY NOT LIABLE; NEGLIGENCE:
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
section
3-9-20 of this chapter, the Manager or duly authorized employees of the City
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the City
employees and the City shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by City employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
section
3-9-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-22: RIGHT TO ENTER; WORK ON EASEMENT:
The Manager and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. Additionally, for all properties
connected to the City's wastewater facilities that are not served by City water
service, the Manager and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter such
properties for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement (including installation of appropriate meters or other measuring
devices), sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works
lying within said properties. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018)
3-9-23: PERMIT SYSTEM:
It is accepted practice for those political entities using the permit system to
call for two (2) classes of permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial building sewers; and
   (B)   For industrial sewer connections. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-24: SPECIAL AGREEMENT:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-25: VALIDITY:
The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without such invalid part or parts. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-9-26: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
section
3-9-19 of this chapter shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (A) of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the City
by reason of such violation. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990; amd. 2020 Code)
3-9-27: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES:
   (A)   Wastewater Service Charges:
      1.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
city shall consist of a fixed administrative service charge, a basic user
charge, a debt service charge, a capital improvement charge (for users located
outside the city limits only), and a surcharge, if applicable.
         (a)   Fixed Administrative Service Charge: The fixed administrative
service charge is for the administrative expenses of the sewerage system and is
computed by dividing the budgeted fixed administrative costs by the number of
users. Through further division, the monthly and/or quarterly fixed
administrative service charges can be computed.
         (b)   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge is for the variable
operation, maintenance and replacement expenses of the sewerage system and is
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
            (1)   A five (5) day, twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD5) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
            (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of three hundred twenty
milligrams per liter (320 mg/l).
            The basic user charge is computed by multiplying the water/
wastewater volume in one (1) gallon by the basic user rate which is computed as
follows:
               A.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate
and maintain the wastewater facilities including equipment replacement.
               B.   Estimate the billable wastewater volume.
               C.   Compute the costs (rate) per one hundred (100) gallons of
the billable volume.
         (c)   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is for revenue bond
debt retirement including principal, interest and cover costs, and is based on
a water usage as recorded by the water and/or sewage meters. The debt service
charge is computed by multiplying the water/wastewater volume in one hundred
(100) gallons by a debt service charge rate which is computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue needed for revenue bond
debt retirement.
            (2)   Estimate the billable wastewater volume.
            (3)   Compute the cost (rate) per one (1) gallon of billable
volume.
         (d)   Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is
levied on users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or
reconstruction of the sewage system. The capital improvement charge is computed
by apportioning the annual amount to be accrued as a fixed charge per billing
period.
         (e)   Surcharge: Except where specifically allowed by special
agreement(s), a surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastes exceed the
normal domestic concentrations for BOD5 of two hundred milligrams per liter
(200 mg/l) and suspended solids of three hundred twenty milligrams per liter
(320 mg/l). The surcharge will be based on a usage as recorded by water and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter
(200 mg/l) and three hundred twenty milligrams per liter (320 mg/l)
concentration for BOD5 and suspended solids respectively. Subsection (A)8 of
this section specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
      2.   Annual Review Of Charges: The adequacy of wastewater service charge
shall be reviewed annually and shall be revised periodically to reflect changes
in the fixed administrative costs; operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and/or capital improvement costs.
      3.   Annual User Notification: The users of wastewater treatment services
shall be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and
that portion of the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater
treatment operation, maintenance and replacement.
      4.   Measurement Of Flows: The volume of flow used for computing user
charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest increments of
one (1) gallon.
         (a)   All users of the sewerage system discharging water into the
sewerage system who procure any part, or all, of their water from a source
other than the waterworks system of the city, all or part of which is
discharged into the sewerage system, shall, if directed by the city, install
and maintain at his, her or its expense, water meters of a type approved by the
building official of the city for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these sources.
         (b)   Devices for measuring the volume of wastewater discharged may be
required by the building official if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
         (c)   Water meters and metering devices for determining the volume of
the wastewater discharge shall be installed, owned and maintained by the
person. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed
without the consent of the building official.
      5.   Rates:
         (a)   Rates for all metered customers excluding Large Users shall be
as follows:
  FY2023 FY2024 FY2025 FY2026
                                            FY2023   FY2024   FY2025   FY2026
Administrative Service Charge  $/User/Month $9.80    $9.80    $9.80    $9.80
Basic User Charge              $/User/Month $1.58    $1.58    $1.58    $1.58
Debt Service Charge            $/User/Month $1.29    $1.29    $1.29    $1.29
Capital Improvement Charge     $/User/Month $1.89    $1.89    $1.89    $1.89
Total Fixed Charge             $/User/Month $14.56   $14.56   $14.56   $14.56
Excess Usage Rate (749-747,252  
Gallons)
Basic User Charge              $/Gallon     $0.00289 $0.00289 $0.00289 $0.00289
Debt Service Charge            $/Gallon     $0.00172 $0.00172 $0.00172 $0.00172
Capital Improvement Charge     $/Gallon     $0.00189 $0.00189 $0.00189 $0.00189
Total Usage Charge             $/Gallon     $0.00650 $0.00650 $0.00650 $0.00650
 
         (b)   Rates for all Large User metered customers shall be as follows:
  FY2023 FY2024 FY2025 FY2026 FY2027 FY2028
                      FY2023   FY2024    FY2025    FY2026    FY2027    FY2028
Administrative $/
Service Charge User/  $9.80    $9.80     $9.80     $9.80     $10.05    $10.30
               Month
Basic User     $/
Charge         User/  $1.58    $1,590.00 $3,180.00 $4,770.00 $6,360.00 $7,950.00
               Month
Debt Service   $/
Charge         User/  $1.29    $1.29     $1.29     $1.29     $1.32     $1.35
               Month
Capital        $/
Improvement    User/  $1.89    $1.89     $1.89     $1.89     $1.94     $1.99
Charge         Month
Total Fixed    $/
Charge         User/  $14.56   $1,602.98 $3,192.98 $4,782.98 $6,373.31 $7,963.64
               Month
Excess Usage
Rate (749-      
747,252
Gallons)
Basic User     $/     $0.00210 $0.00100  $0.00107  $0.00116  $0.00119  $0.00122
Charge         Gallon
Debt Service   $/     $0.00087 $0.00172  $0.00172  $0.00172  $0.00176  $0.00180
Charge         Gallon
Capital        $/
Improvement    Gallon $0.00000 $0.00035  $0.00035  $0.00035  $0.00036  $0.00037
Charge
Total Usage    $/     $0.00297 $0.00307  $0.00314  $0.00323  $0.00331  $0.00339
Charge         Gallon
 
         (c)   Sewer Users Outside City Limits: Rates for sewer users outside
the city limits shall be an additional fifteen percent (15%).
      6.   Residential Non-Metered Users: All non-metered single-family
residential users of the wastewater facilities who are not supplied with water
by the city shall pay a charge based on an estimated average consumption of
five thousand nine hundred eighty-four (5,984) gallons per month. In the event
the user of the wastewater facilities is determined by the Manager to be in
excess of five thousand nine hundred eighty-four (5,984) gallons per month, the
Manager may require the user to install metering devices on the water supply or
sewer lateral to measure the amount of service supplied.
      All non-metered single-family residential users of the wastewater
facilities who are located outside the city corporate limits and are not
supplied with water by the city shall pay a charge based on an estimated
average consumption of five thousand nine hundred eighty-four (5,984) gallons
per month. In the event the user of the wastewater facilities is determined by
the Manager to be in excess of five thousand nine hundred eighty-four (5,984)
gallons per month, the Manager may require the user to install metering devices
on the water supply or sewer lateral to measure the amount of service supplied.
      7.   Other Than Residential Non-Metered Users: All non-metered users
other than single-family residential users of the wastewater treatment
facilities who are not supplied with city water shall pay a charge based on an
estimated consumption of thirty eight thousand eight hundred ninety-six
(38,896) gallons per month. In the event the user of the wastewater facilities
is determined by the Manager to be in excess of thirty eight thousand eight
hundred ninety-six (38,896) gallons per month, the Manager may require the user
to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer lateral to measure the
amount of service supplied.
      All non-metered other than single-family residential users of the
wastewater facilities who are located outside the city corporate limits and are
not supplied with water by the city shall pay a charge based on an estimated
average consumption of thirty eight thousand eight hundred ninety-six (38,896)
gallons. In the event the user of the wastewater facilities is determined by
the Manager to be in excess of thirty eight thousand eight hundred ninety-six
(38,896) gallons, the Manager may require the user to install metering devices
on the water supply or sewer lateral to measure the amount of service supplied.
      8.   Surcharge Rates: The unit rates for wastewater surcharge shall be:
         (a)   For biochemical oxygen demand (BOD): Twenty five cents ($0.25)
per pound;
         (b)   For suspended solids (SS): Twenty cents ($0.20) per pound, with
exception to Large Users.
      The unit rates for wastewater surcharge for Large Users shall be:
         (a)   For biochemical oxygen demand (BOD): Fourteen cents ($0.14) per
pound;
         (b)   For suspended solids (SS): Ten cents ($0.10) per pound.
      9.   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service
charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CM + Vu (Cu + CD + CR) + CS
   Where:
 CW = Amount of wastewater service charge in dollars per billing period
 CM = Fixed administrative expenses in dollars per billing period
 Vu = Wastewater volume in gallons per billing period
 Cu = Basic user rate in dollars per gallon
 CD = Debt service rate in dollars per gallon
 CR = Capital improvement charge in dollars per gallon for users located
       outside of the city corporate limits
 CS = Surcharge if applicable, as determined by the following formula:
    CS = Vu (0.00000834) [A (BOD5 - 200) + B (SS - 320)]
    Where:
     CS = Amount of surcharge in dollars per billing period
     Vu = Wastewater volume in gallons per billing period
     0.00000834 = Unit of weight of water x 10-6 per gallon
     A = Unit charge for BOD5 per pound
     BOD5 = 5 day biochemical oxygen demand of wastewater in mg/l
     200 = Allowable average strength in mg/l
     B = Unit charge for suspended solids per pound
     SS = Suspended solids concentration of wastewater in mg/l
     320 = Allowable average suspended solids strength in mg/l
 
      10.   Exceptions To Charge: Provided the residential user complies with
the provisions of this section, the following usages of the wastewater
facilities shall be exempt from the wastewater service charges established in
this chapter:
         (a)   Swimming Pools:
            (1)   Any property owner intending to fill a swimming pool located
on the owner's property may make a request to the city to pay only the water
usage charges incurred in said filling by submitting a written request to city
hall. The request must be submitted prior to the filling of the swimming pool
along with a ten dollar ($10.00) fee. Upon approval of the request by the
Manager, the wastewater service charge shall not be charged for the filling of
said swimming pool, but the property owner shall be charged the normal water
rate in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8 section
3-8-15. The meter shall be read by the water division immediately before
filling the swimming pool and again three (3) days later. Discharging of any
swimming pool water into the city's sanitary sewer system is prohibited.
            (2)   The exemption provided under this subsection (A)10(a) shall
be granted only once per calendar year. Any other water added to a residential
pool shall be charged as provided in this code.
            (3)   Filling of a swimming pool from a metered fire hydrant is
prohibited.
         (b)   Newly Sodded Or Seeded Lawn:
            (1)   The wastewater service charge shall not be charged for the
watering of a newly seeded or sodded lawn only if the owner or the occupant of
the residence notifies the wastewater treatment plant in writing at least five
(5) days prior to the installation of the new seeding or sod.
            (2)   The determination of whether a lawn is newly seeded or sodded
shall be made by and at the sole discretion of the Manager of the wastewater
treatment plant.
            (3)   The exemption granted under this subsection (A)10(b) shall:
               A.   Only apply to lawns where the sod is installed or the seed
is planted either in the entire front yard and/or back yard;
               B.   Not exceed thirty (30) days from the date said lawn is
newly seeded or sodded; and
               C.   Not be applicable to any other watering or outside use.
            (4)   The method of computing the amount of the exempt fee shall be
determined by the Manager of the wastewater treatment plant. Provided, however,
the amount of the wastewater service charge shall first be paid by the owner or
user and the amount of the charge determined to be exempt shall thereafter be
rebated by the city.
      11.   Miscellaneous Wastes Rates; Conditions:
         (a)   The unit rates for miscellaneous wastes shall be: 1) for holding
tank waste: eleven dollars forty-two cents ($11.42) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons; 2) for septage: ten cents ($ 0.10) per one (1) gallons; 3) for
leachate: six cents ($0.06) per one (1) gallon unless established by special
agreement between both parties.
      The unit rates for miscellaneous wastes were established based on typical
strength holding tank waste (600 mg/l BOD and 1,800 mg/l SS) and typical
strength septage (5,000 mg/l BOD and 15,000 mg/l SS). If analytical testing
determines the strength of the holding tank waste or septage to be higher than
the typical values as indicated above, an additional charge may be levied. This
additional charge shall be based upon the unit charges as indicated in
subsection (A)8 of this section, and upon the increased pounds of BOD and/or SS
over and above the typical strengths indicated in this subsection.
         (b)   The city may accept for treatment holding tank wastes, septage
or other miscellaneous wastes subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Should the city determine that excess capacity exists at the
wastewater treatment plant, and that the conditions of the NPDES permit granted
by the state for operation of the wastewater treatment plant will be met, the
city may accept for treatment septage, holding tank waste or other
miscellaneous wastes.
            (2)   Miscellaneous wastes shall only be accepted by the city if
such wastes are delivered by the hauler to the wastewater treatment plant, and
discharged at a location and under such conditions as approved by the city.
            (3)   All approvals for miscellaneous hauled waste disposal shall
be subject to such conditions as deemed necessary by the city, including the
condition that acceptance of miscellaneous hauled wastes may be restricted or
suspended, should the wastewater treatment plant have operational problems,
maintenance problems, or the threat of NPDES permit violations which are
indirectly or directly related to the acceptance of the miscellaneous hauled
waste.
      12.   Increase In Rates:
         (a)   Each of the rates set forth in subsections (A)5(a), (A)8 and
(A)11(a) of this section shall automatically increase by 2.5% per annum over
the previous year on May 1 of each year commencing May 1, 2026. Each of the
rates set forth in subsection (A)5(b) of this section shall automatically
increase by 2.5% per annum over the previous year on May 1 of each year
commencing May 1, 2028. (Ord. 3110, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 3309, 6-6-2022; Ord.
3316, 7-18-2022)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL BAND
SECTION:
3-10-1: Band Established
3-10-2: Director; Appointment
3-10-3: Director; Term
3-10-4: Compensation
3-10-5: Organization
3-10-6: Purpose, Duties, And Reports
3-10-7: Funds
3-10-1: BAND ESTABLISHED:
The Dixon Municipal Band was established in 1918, and was approved for funding
by levy per the citizens of the city starting in 1931. The Dixon Municipal Band
has served the citizens, and visitors, to the city continuously since then
(except the 2020/2021 season when performances were not viable due to COVID).
The city desires to facilitate the continuation of the mission of the Dixon
Municipal Band as it serves the citizens by delivering free community concerts
and performances within the city each year. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3367, 8-7-
2023)
3-10-2: DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT:
The mayor shall recommend to the council the appointment of a director of the
Dixon Municipal Band, who shall be appointed by a majority vote of the council.
The director shall be a part-time employee of the city. (1950 Code; amd. Ord.
3367, 8-7-2023)
3-10-3: DIRECTOR; TERM:
The director shall hold office until the end of the third (3rd) fiscal year
from the date on which the director is appointed or until a successor is
appointed and approved; provided, that the council may remove the director at
any time for any reason. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3367, 8-7-2023)
3-10-4: COMPENSATION:
   (A)   The director shall be paid a monthly salary in such amount as shall be
determined from time to time by the council. As a part-time employee, the
director shall not be eligible for other fringe benefits made available to
full-time employees of the city.
   (B)   Other members of the Dixon Municipal Band shall be considered to be
independent contractors and shall be compensated in amounts as determined from
time to time by the board of the Dixon Municipal Band with the approval of the
council. Any member receiving compensation shall be required to acknowledge in
writing that he or she is an independent contractor and not an employee of the
Dixon Municipal Band or the city. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3367, 8-7-2023)
3-10-5: REPORTS:
   (A)   The Dixon Municipal Band shall be organized and managed by a board
comprised of five (5) persons, including the director, two (2) at large
residents of the City, and two (2) active participants of the Dixon Municipal
Band other than the director.
   (B)   The two (2) members of the board who are at large residents of the
city shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the council. One of
the appointed members shall serve for one (1) year or until his or her
successor is appointed, with the initial term beginning on May 1, 2024. The
other appointed member shall serve for two (2) years or until his or her
successor is appointed, with the initial term beginning on May 1, 2024.
Thereafter, all appointed members shall serve two (2) year terms or until their
successors are appointed. Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of
any of the appointed members, his or her successor shall be appointed by the
mayor with the consent of the council for the unexpired term.
   (C)   The two (2) members of the board who are active participants in the
Dixon Municipal Band shall be elected by the active participants of the Dixon
Municipal Band. The term of the elected members shall be two (2) years or until
their successors are elected, with the initial term beginning on May 1, 2024.
The election for such members shall be held biennially in March or April, but
not later than the third (3rd) Monday of April, at such place within the city,
and in such manner, as shall be prescribed by the director and the two (2)
appointed members of the board. The initial election shall be held in 2024.
Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected board member,
his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a special
election to be called by the board and conducted in the same manner as the
regular biennial election.
   (D)   At the first meeting after it is established, and annually thereafter,
the board shall set a regular meeting schedule as it may deem appropriate, but
not less frequently than three (3) times per year.
   (E)   Annually, the members of the board shall select from among its members
a vice-chairperson and secretary, with each selected member serving in their
respective office for a one year term. The director shall serve as chairperson
of the board.
   (F)   Members of the board and the officers thereof shall neither receive
nor have any right to receive any salary for services performed in those
offices. (Ord. 3367, 8-7-2023)
3-10-6: PURPOSE, DUTIES, AND REPORTS:
   (A)   The board shall oversee selection of persons to serve as members of
the Dixon Municipal Band and prepare such rules as may to it deem expedient and
not inconsistent with the best interests of the band and the city and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this code or any law. Such rules must be
submitted to the council for approval before becoming effective. The board
shall have general supervision of all details pertaining to the Dixon Municipal
Band except as otherwise directed by the council. The board shall appoint or
designate such assistants and positions as may be authorized by the council and
fix their compensation, subject to the approval of the council, and it may, by
and with the consent of the council, remove such appointees.
   (B)   The board shall keep a correct record of its proceedings and provide
copies of same to the council.
   (C)   The board shall oversee the promotion of music through free live band
concerts and furnish equivalent musical service upon occasions of importance,
for the benefit of the citizens of Dixon, all of which shall be as nearly as
possible in conformity with the practice adhered within the city in the past
for holding such band concerts or performances.
   (D)   The board shall communicate with the council to apprise them of the
dates and locations of all concerts or performances to be held throughout the
year. All the dates and locations of concerts or performances by the Dixon
Municipal Band shall be posted on the website maintained by the city and
whenever possible not less than (14) days prior to any concert or performance.
   (E)   The board shall prepare and submit to the council each fiscal year a
copy of its budget for operations of the Dixon Municipal Band showing
anticipated revenues and expenses. The board shall annually, not more than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the fiscal year, make a report to the
council of the actual revenues and expenses of the operations, the condition,
and activities of the Dixon Municipal Band during the preceding fiscal year.
   (F)   The Dixon Municipal Band may accept revenue from sources other than
the city and perform other concerts or performances (in addition to the free
concerts and performances provided for the benefit of the residents of the
city), so long as such additional revenues and expenses are disclosed to the
council by the aforesaid reports. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3367, 8-7-2023)
3-10-7: FUNDS:
The council shall have the exclusive control of the expenditures of all monies
collected, levied or donated to the credit of the Dixon Municipal Band fund by
way of annual budget approval. All monies received, either by levy or
otherwise, shall be deposited in the city treasury to the credit of the Dixon
Municipal Band fund and the treasurer or financial director shall keep the
funds separate and apart from other monies of the city. The director (or his/
her designee) shall approve all accounts charged against the Dixon Municipal
Band fund and submit same to the treasurer or financial director before any
payment is made. (1950 Code; amd. Ord. 3367, 8-7-2023)
CHAPTER 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Jurisdiction
3-11-2: Approvals; Interpretations; Exceptions
3-11-3: Definitions
3-11-4: Design Standards
3-11-5: Procedure And Requirements
3-11-6: Agreements
3-11-7: Required Land Improvements
3-11-8: Variances And Exceptions
3-11-9: Occupancy Permit
3-11-10: Enforcement
3-11-11: Record Of Plats
3-11-1: JURISDICTION:
Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the city or
within contiguous territory and not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond the incorporated boundary of the city, the subdivider thereof or his
agent shall submit both a preliminary and a final subdivision plan to the city.
The plans, proposed improvements, and all procedures relating thereto, shall in
all respects be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter contained
in this chapter.
All lands offered to the city for use as streets, highways, alleys, parks and
other public use, shall be referred to the plan commission for review and
recommendation before being accepted by the council or by any other governing
authority. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
3-11-2: APPROVALS; INTERPRETATIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   No land lying within the corporate limits, after the adoption of these
regulations, shall be subdivided or filed for record, nor any street laid out,
nor any improvements made to the land, until the plan of the subdivision or
plan of the street improvements has been certified to and approved by action of
the council. This approval must be in writing and placed on the original
tracing of the final plans, according to the procedure outlined in section
3-11-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
   (B)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision lying within
the corporate limits, shall be offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract
for sale, or option be made or given until such subdivision plans have been
properly reviewed by the plan commission and officially approved by the
council.
   (C)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, or grading,
paving or surfacing the streets, shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision of the city, by any owner or his agent, or by any public service
corporation at the request of the owner or his agent until the plans for the
subdivision and also the plans for improvements thereto have been formally
recommended by the plan commission and approved by the council.
   (D)   Subdivision of land lying outside of the city and within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits, shall also be required to conform
with the requirements of this chapter, in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
3-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A strip of land, not less than twenty feet (20') in width and not more
than forty feet (40') along the side of or in the rear of properties, intended
to provide access to these properties.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated on
the plat of the proposed subdivision, between which, and the adjacent boundary
of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of an enclosed structure
or portion thereof is to be prohibited.
CROSSWALK WAY: A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person for a specific purpose.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast through moving traffic on the primary
streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
PRIMARY STREET: A principal street which collects traffic from minor and
secondary streets serving large areas, and connecting with state and U.S.
highways or extending to principal points of destination.
PUBLIC STREET: All primary and minor streets which are shown on the subdivision
plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
SECONDARY STREET: A street which collects traffic from minor streets and
connecting with primary streets or state and U.S. highways or extending to
points of destination.
STREET: An area which serves or is intended to serve as a vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting lands or other streets.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels or other divisions of land, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however, that the
following divisions of land shall be exempted from the definition of
"subdivision":
   (A)   A division of land for agricultural purposes in parcels of more than
five (5) acres not involving any new street or public utility easement or
easement of access; or
   (B)   The transfer of less than ten feet (10') of property in a recorded
subdivision to an adjoining property owner where each lot, tract or parcel,
after said transfer, contains the minimum square footage required under this
code; or
   (C)   The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land of less than one acre
in a recorded subdivision into two (2) or more lots, parcels or other divisions
of land not involving any new streets, public utility easements or easements of
access where each lot, tract, or parcel of land resulting from such
subdivision: 1) contains the minimum square footage required under this code,
and 2) complies in all other respects with the provisions of this code.
Each owner of a lot, tract or parcel of land asserting an exemption under
subsection (B) or (C) of this definition shall file a plat of survey, prepared
by an Illinois registered land surveyor with the city's building official,
showing the resulting lots or tracts and giving the legal descriptions
therefor. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972; amd. Ord. 2093, 6-15-1998)
3-11-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (A)   Street Plan: The subdivision of land, including the arrangement,
character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other
land to be dedicated for public use, shall conform to the general development
plan of the city as approved and adopted by the council and other responsible
governmental bodies; and shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
   (B)   Minimum Street Standards:
      1.   All rights of way shall conform to the following minimum dimensions:
         (a)   Primary streets shall conform to the major street plan and in no
instance shall be less than one hundred feet (100').
         (b)   Secondary or collector streets shall be sixty six feet (66').
         (c)   Minor streets shall be sixty feet (60').
         (d)   Cul-de-sac shall be sixty feet (60').
         (e)   Crosswalks shall be ten feet (10').
         (f)   Utility easements shall be ten feet (10').
      2.   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
      3.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided.
      4.   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street, shall
be provided for at least three hundred feet (300') on all primary streets, two
hundred feet (200') on minor streets, and at least one hundred feet (100') on
all other streets.
      5.   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and confluences
encourage safe traffic flow.
      6.   Alleys are not permitted, except where deemed necessary, and at the
discretion of the plan commission or the council.
      7.   The maximum length cul-de-sac shall be five hundred feet (500')
measured along the centerline from the intersection at origin through center of
circle to end of right of way. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly
circular shape with a minimum diameter of one hundred feet (100').
      8.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and where the plan commission or the council
finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other one-half
(1/2) when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other one-half (1/2) of the street
shall be planned within such tract.
      9.   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be confused
with, the names of existing streets. Existing street names must be projected
wherever possible.
   (C)   Easements:
      1.   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet (10')
wide.
      2.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right of way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
(Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
   (D)   Block Standards:
      1.   The maximum lengths of blocks shall be one thousand eight hundred
feet (1,800'). All blocks over eight hundred feet (800') will ordinarily
require crosswalks at the approximate centers. The use of additional crosswalk
ways in any instance to provide safe and convenient access to schools, parks or
other similar destinations will be approved by the city council and city
engineer. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
      2.   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks
must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their design must
evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public areas.
      3.   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use must be designated
as such, and the plan must show adequate off street areas to provide for
parking, loading docks and such other facilities that may be required to
accommodate motor vehicles.
   (E)   Lot Standards:
      1.   The minimum lot dimensions for residential development shall be
sixty feet (60') wide at the established building line and not less than one
hundred feet (100') in average depth, and containing not less than six thousand
(6,000) square feet in area, except that a corner lot may be of less depth;
provided, that neither the width nor depth is less than eighty five feet (85'),
where permitted under the provisions of the zoning title. This minimum
requirement shall not apply to land subdivided for nonresidential development.
      2.   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow
maintenance of building lines on both streets.
      3.   All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
      4.   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial
to the street line.
      5.   Double frontage lots are forbidden except where lots back upon a
primary street (major thoroughfare) and in such instances, vehicular access
between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited. Such lots shall have an
additional depth of at least ten feet (10') in order to allow for a protective
screen planting.
      6.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable area required in the zoning title
for front, rear and side yards.
   (F)   Parks, Schools, And Public Areas:
      1.   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use area,
shown in the general development plan for the city and adjacent unincorporated
areas, is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the plan commission may
recommend and the governing body may require the dedication or reservation of
such area, in whole or in part, within the subdivision in those cases in which
the plan commission or the proper governing body deem such requirements to be
reasonable. However, in no case shall the total amount of required public areas
to be dedicated or reserved, in addition to public streets, exceed ten percent
(10%) of the total gross acreage owned or controlled by one developer. The
acquisition of the additional area needed for parks, playgrounds, schools or
other public uses, other than streets and alleys, shall be secured by the
proper governing body, or arrangements made for securing the area from the
owner within a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.
      2.   In the subdividing of any land within the city, or within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits, due regard shall be shown for
all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or
similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to
the proposed development. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972; amd. 2020 Code)
3-11-5: PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Procedure For Filing Of Preliminary Plans:
      1.   Filing:
         (a)   Any owner of land which is within the corporate limits of the
city or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits on
unincorporated land, wishing to divide the same into building lots for purposes
of sale or assessment or both, or wishing to dedicate streets, alleys or other
lands for public use, shall first submit to the city a preliminary plan in
triplicate.
         (b)   The council shall, by motion, refer the preliminary plan to the
plan commission and shall at the time instruct the engineer to collaborate with
the subdivider and the plan commission in assembling plans for the design and
construction of streets and such other public improvements as are required by
this chapter or any other provisions of this code. The plan commission shall,
within thirty (30) days from referral, submit its written recommendations for
approval or disapproval to the council.
         (c)   The preliminary plans shall be referred to the plan commission
at least ten (10) days prior to the regular meeting of the commission to
receive action thereon at the meeting.
      2.   Preliminary Plat; Contents:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         (c)   Names and addresses of developer and designer who made plat.
         (d)   Scale of plat, one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger.
         (e)   Date.
         (f)   North point.
         (g)   Boundary lines of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
         (h)   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
permanent easements, and section and corporation lines, within or adjacent to
the street.
         (i)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes, and exact
location.
         (j)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided
land, showing ownership where possible.
         (k)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts, in
zoned areas.
         (l)   Contours at two foot (2') intervals except where topography of
the tract demands one foot (1') contour intervals.
         (m)   Layout of streets, widths of rights of way and also the widths
of crosswalks and easements.
         (n)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots.
         (o)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision.
         (p)   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
         (q)   Easements shall be provided for any and all public utilities
where alleys are not provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block
to block shall be maintained.
      3.   Qualifications For Approval Of Preliminary Plat:
         (a)   The approval of a preliminary plan by the plan commission and
the council is tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of
the layout.
         (b)   The plan commission or the council may require such changes or
revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the community.
         (c)   Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering
proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage
disposal, gas and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants, grading,
gradients and roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets by the engineer, and
the county officials, where concerned, prior to the approval of the final plat
by the city.
         (d)   Tentative approval shall be effective for a maximum period of
twelve (12) months unless, upon application of the developer, the council
grants an extension. If the final plat has not been recorded within this time
limit, the preliminary plat must again be submitted for approval. (Ord. 680, 1-
17-1972)
   (B)   Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   Filing:
         (a)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the city council and
the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, at least two (2)
tracings of the final plat of the subdivision, printed on drafting mylar not to
exceed thirty six inches by forty eight inches (36" x 48") in size, shall be
submitted to the council for approval. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
         (b)   Action must be taken by the council within sixty (60) days after
the final plat has been submitted for approval. (Ord. 1622, 9-16-1991)
         (c)   Upon approval by the council, the developer shall record the
plat with the recorder of Lee County within three (3) months. If not recorded
within this time, the approval shall be null and void.
         (d)   A print of the final plat, after the plat is recorded, will be
filed and retained in the offices of the city.
      2.   Final Plat; Contents:
         (a)   Name of subdivision.
         (b)   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         (c)   Names of owners and certification by a licensed surveyor.
         (d)   Scale one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, shown
graphically.
         (e)   Date.
         (f)   North point.
         (g)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and linear dimensions.
         (h)   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalk ways.
Proposed street names shall be checked with the proper city officials.
         (i)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately
described in the plat.
         (j)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
         (k)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings
and lengths of all arcs.
         (l)   All easements for rights of way provided for public services and
utilities.
         (m)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths.
         (n)   Accurate location of all monuments, which shall be concrete six
inches by six inches by thirty inches (6" x 6" x 30") with iron pipe case in
center. Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be set at each corner or
angle of the outside boundary. Steel pipes or steel pins shall be set on each
lot corner, other than those for permanent stone or concrete monuments. All
U.S., state, county, or other official bench marks, monuments or triangular
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
         (o)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners.
         (p)   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimensions.
         (q)   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the plan
commission shall be lettered or typed on the final plat.
         (r)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct.
         (s)   Notarized certification by the owner, or by any mortgage holder
on record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
         (t)   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments
due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full.
         (u)   Proper form for the approval of the council with space for
signature.
         (v)   Approval by signature of city, county and state officials
concerned with the specification of utility installations.
         (w)   Approval by signature of the plan commission. This approval of
the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an acceptance by the
public of the dedication of any street or other proposed public way or space
shown on the plat. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
3-11-6: AGREEMENTS:
The final plat to be filed on record shall be accompanied by a statement signed
by the owner and subdivider, setting forth the following:
   (A)   Plans and specifications for such improvements previously approved by
the engineer clearly describing the same.
   (B)   Agreement executed by the owner and the subdivider wherein they agree
to make and install the improvements provided for in section
3-11-7 of this chapter, in accordance with the plans and specifications
accompanying the final plat. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
   (C)   Bond or a letter of credit in the amount of the estimate of the
engineer of the cost of the installation of such improvements with good and
sufficient surety thereon to be approved by the council, conditioned upon the
installation of the required improvements within two (2) years of the approval
of the final plat.
   (D)   In lieu of the provisions of subsections (B) and (C) of this section,
in the event that the owner and subdivider shall submit said evidence of the
existence of the binding agreement with a responsible contractor agreeing to
accept all bonds which may be issued under any local improvement proceeding for
the installation of such improvement or a bona fide and subsisting bid by a
responsible person for the purchase for cash of such local improvement bonds at
par value or more, then the requirements of subsections (B) and (C) of this
section may be waived.
   (E)   All improvements proposed (and/or required) to be made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected, during the course of
construction, by the city engineer or a duly designated deputy. Fees and costs
shall be paid according to the following schedule:
      1.   Prior to the approval of a final plat by the city council, the
subdivider or developer shall pay to the city a fee for the engineering costs
of reviewing the construction plans for improvements; said fee to be computed
in accordance with the following table:
Estimated Cost Of Construction Of Improvements Plan Review Fee
Estimated Cost Of Construction Of  Plan Review Fee
Improvements
$2,500.00 or less                  4 percent of estimated cost, but not less
                                   than $50.00
$10,000.00 or less, but more than  3 percent of estimated cost, but not less
$2,500.00                          than $100.00
$25,000.00 or less, but more than  2.5 percent of estimated cost, but not less
$10,000.00                         than $300.00
$50,000.00 or less, but more than  2 percent of estimated cost, but not less
$25,000.00                         than $625.00
$100,000.00 or less, but more than 1.75 percent of estimated cost, but not
$50,000.00                         less than $1,000.00
$200,000.00 or less, but more than 1.5 percent of estimated cost, but not less
$100,000.00                        than $1,750.00
$400,000.00 or less, but more than 1.25 percent of estimated cost, but not
$200,000.00                        less than $3,000.00
$600,000.00 or less, but more than 1 percent of estimated cost, but not less
$400,000.00                        than $5,000.00
More than $600,000.00              0.75 percent of estimated cost, but not
                                   less than $6,000.00
 
(Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
3-11-7: REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement signed
by the engineer certifying that the improvement described in the subdivider's
plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the minimum
requirements of all the provisions of this code and that they comply with the
following:
   (A)   Sewers:
      1.   Sanitary sewers with laterals extending to lot lines shall be
installed to comply with specifications established by the engineer and shall
be connected to the sanitary disposal system of the city if reasonably
accessible; otherwise, to a specially constructed sanitary sewage disposal
plant in accordance with plans acceptable to the city. The sanitary sewers
shall be designed to carry all of the sewage flow within the drainage basin
within the limits of one and one- half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits
of the city. The sanitary sewer shall be sized to carry a peak flow of two and
one-half (21/2) times the average flow of one hundred (100) gallons per capita
per day. Unless there is supporting data to the contrary, the sewers shall be
designed for sixteen (16) people per acre. A subdivision plat shall in no case
be approved, which shall be dependent upon individual septic tanks, except
where lots therein contain not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet
each, and the installation meets the requirements of the state and county
health department specifications for the construction and installation of
individual septic systems.
      2.   Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision
which shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system and which
shall provide an adequate outlet, or connection with the storm sewer system of
the city. The storm sewers shall be extended to the extremities of the
subdivision for easy access by future upstream developments. The storm sewers
shall be sized to carry the runoff from the entire drainage area according to
the rational runoff formula Q = CiA where Q is the volume of stormwater in
cubic feet per second; C is the runoff coefficient, which is that part of the
rainfall rate which will contribute to the runoff rate; i is the average
intensity of the rainfall in inches per hour during the time required for all
parts of the watershed to contribute to runoff; and A is the area of the
drainage basin in acres. Where the major portion of the drainage basin is or
will be a residential area, a factor of eight-tenths (0.8) shall be used for
the product of C and i. When commercial, industrial or other large runoff areas
are within the drainage area, the values used for C and i shall be approved by
the city engineer. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
      3.   After all sewer and water lines installed in city streets have been
fully tested and approved by the city, and paid for by the subdivider, the
subdivider shall be required to execute a bill of sale transferring ownership
of said sewer and water lines to the city. (Ord. 1061, 12-1-1980)
   (B)   Street Improvements:
      1.   Grades of streets shall not be in excess of five percent (5%) on
primary streets, nor in excess of eight percent (8%) on other streets except in
cases of necessity and with the permission of the plan commission.
      2.   All streets within the corporate limits shall be improved with
roadways, bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutters, to an overall width
in accordance with the following minimum dimensions:
 
Type Of Street         Dedicated Street Width       Roadway Width
                       Conform to major street plan 2 24-foot roadways, divided
Primary streets        and in no instance less than by a median strip
                       100 feet
Secondary or collector 66 feet                      45 feet BC-BC
streets
Minor streets          60 feet                      37 feet BC-BC
 
      3.   Roadways shall be constructed of such base material and surfacing as
to be suitable for the volume and character of traffic expected to use the
street, and as approved by the city officials and the city engineer. The
surface shall be finished by constructing a minimum three inch (3") combined
hot mix asphalt binder and surface course conforming to section 406 of the
state of Illinois, "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
adopted January 1, 2007, or latest revision thereof.
      4.   Curbs and gutters on minor residential streets shall be type B6.18
combination concrete curb and gutter in accordance with IDOT standards, not
less than twenty five inches (25") in overall width.
      5.   Stormwater inlets shall be provided within the roadway improvement
at points approved by the city engineer.
      6.   All curb corners shall have a radii of not less than fifteen feet
(15') and at important intersections not less than twenty five feet (25'). All
curb corners shall be designed for the appropriate design vehicle for that
location.
      7.   Roadway improvements in subdivisions lying outside the corporate
city area, but within the one and one-half (11/2) mile area, shall conform to
standards of improvements suitable for the character of the proposed
subdivision development, recommended by the plan commission and approved by the
governing authorities.
      8.   All curbs and gutters shall conform to the design standard of the
Illinois department of transportation.
   (C)   Public Utilities:
      1.   All utility pole lines for telephone and electric service shall be
placed in rear line easements where practicable. Electric distribution centers
and gas regulating centers shall be placed where necessary to serve the
immediate area, with the definite location being approved by the city engineer.
Underground utilities are desired. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
      2.   Where telephone and electric service lines are placed underground
entirely throughout a subdivided area, the conduits or cables shall be placed
within easements or dedicated public ways, in a manner which will not conflict
with other underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall be
located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public. (Ord. 680, 1-17-
1972)
   (D)   Sidewalks:
      1.   Concrete sidewalks to a width of not less than five feet (5') shall
be required by the plan commission or governing authorities as a part of the
dedicated street improvements. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
   (E)   Landscaping: All parkways within the dedicated street area or other
public use areas shall be graded and seeded in an approved manner. (Ord. 680,
1-17-1972)
   (F)   Street Lighting: Provisions shall be made by the subdivision developer
or his agent for the adequate lighting of public streets within the proposed
subdivision, in accordance with the standard requirements established by the
governing authorities. If the street lighting system will be turned over to the
city, the underground cables shall be placed in conduits. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-
2010)
   (G)   Water Mains: Water mains shall be installed as specified in section
3-8-12 of this title. (Ord. 1249, 12-3-1984)
   (H)   Backfilling: All trenches within the limits of the proposed curbs,
sidewalks and street surfaces shall be backfilled using trench backfill
conforming to section 208 of the state of Illinois "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", adopted January 7, 2007, or latest revision
thereof. Trenches may be backfilled without the use of trench backfill
providing the trenches are thoroughly jetted with water and allowed to settle
for a period of twelve (12) months prior to the construction of sidewalks,
curbs and street surfaces. If trench backfill is not used, the subdivider shall
provide the city a satisfactory bond insuring the repair of all damages caused
by the settlement of trenches for a period of five (5) years.
   (I)   Private Streets: "Private streets" defined herein as a private
thoroughfare permanently reserved or otherwise intended to provide access to
more than one zoning lot or to more than one principal building on a zoning
lot, shall be improved as follows: (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
      1.   Pavement Width: A minimum pavement width of twenty six feet (26')
(exclusive of shoulders or curb) shall be provided.
      2.   On Street Parking: On street parking along a private street shall be
permitted only when the following minimum pavement width (exclusive of
shoulders or curb) is provided:
Parallel parking permitted on one side: Twenty eight feet (28').
Parallel parking permitted on both sides: Thirty six feet (36').
      3.   Fire Lanes: All private streets shall be designed as fire lanes, and
signs prohibiting on street parking shall be installed and maintained on both
sides of private streets with a pavement width of less than twenty seven feet
(27'); and on one side of any private street with a pavement width of more than
twenty seven feet (27') but less than thirty six feet (36').
      4.   Cul-De-Sacs: The pavement of any cul-de-sac or vehicle turnaround
area at the terminus of a private street shall have a minimum diameter of
ninety feet (90'). (Ord. 1544, 7-16-1990)
      5.   Construction: Roadways shall be constructed of base materials
consisting of crushed stone or gravel not less than eight inches (8") after
compaction, suitable for the volume and character of traffic expected to use
the street, and as approved by the city officials and the city engineer. The
surface shall be finished by constructing a three inch (3") combined hot mix
asphalt binder and surface course conforming to section 406 of the state of
Illinois "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", adopted
January 1, 2007, or latest revision thereof.
      6.   Grade: Grades of streets shall not be in excess of five percent (5%)
on primary streets, nor in excess of eight percent (8%) on other streets except
in cases of necessity and with the permission of the plan commission.
      7.   Drainage: All private streets shall be drained by means of ditches
and/or a piped stormwater drainage system as follows: (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
         (a)   Where drainage is by ditches, the ditches shall be placed on
both sides of the road outside any shoulders (shoulders shall have a minimum
width of 2 feet), and shall have a minimum depth of two feet (2') below the
edge of the roadway with maximum back slope of three to one (3:1), the fore
slope to be three to one (3:1). Maximum ditch gradient without erosion
protection shall be two percent (2%). All culverts shall be designed to
accommodate a 20-year storm frequency for the total watershed area tributary to
the culvert. Minimum culvert sizes shall be twelve inches (12") for driveways
and fifteen inches (15") for road crossings. At locations where culverts cross
roadways, a minimum of twelve inches (12") will be maintained between the top
of the pipe and the pavement surface. Pavement edge radii shall be a minimum of
twenty five feet (25') at connecting side street locations. (Ord. 1544, 7-16-
1990)
         (b)   Where roadway drainage is by a pipe storm sewer system, the
system shall be designed to accommodate a 20-year storm frequency of one hour
duration for a total tributary area. Curbs and gutters shall be type B6.18
combination concrete curb and gutter in accordance with IDOT standards, not
less than twenty five inches (25") in overall width, not less than nine inches
(9") thick where curb abuts the street pavement and shall conform to the
standard cross section established by the city. The type and location of
stormwater inlets shall be provided within the roadway improvement at points
approved by the city engineer. Back of curb radii shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') at connecting side street locations or larger as appropriate for the
design vehicle at that location.
      8.   Sidewalks: Where sidewalks are planned, they shall be constructed of
concrete to a width of not less than five feet (5'), and on each side of a
private street, unless a variance is approved. (Ord. 2784, 5-17-2010)
      9.   Street Lighting: Provisions shall be made by the subdivision
developer or his agent for the adequate lighting of public streets within the
proposed subdivision, in accordance with the standard requirements established
by the Illinois department of transportation guidelines in effect from time to
time, unless a variance is approved.
      10.   Snow Removal, Plowing: The city shall not be responsible for snow
removal or plowing of any private street. Nor shall the city be responsible for
any cleaning, repairing, maintenance, resurfacing or any other improvement to
any private street. Nor shall the city enforce any parking regulations or other
traffic regulations on a private street. (Ord. 1544, 7-16-1990)
3-11-8: VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Variances: The plan commission may recommend variances from the
requirements of this chapter in specific cases which in its opinion do not
affect the general plan or the spirit of this chapter or where a strict
application of the terms of this chapter would impose a practical difficulty or
particular hardship. Such recommendations shall be communicated to the council
in writing and the reasons therefor. The council may approve variances from
these requirements in specific cases which in its opinion do not affect the
general plan or the spirit of this chapter. (Ord. 1544, 7-16-1990; amd. Ord.
2093, 6-15-1998)
   (B)   Exceptions: (Rep. by Ord. 2093, 6-15-1998)
   (C)   Hearing: No variance permitted by this section shall be granted until
the plan commission has conducted a hearing and filed a written report of its
finding and recommendations to the council.
   (D)   Plat: Each application for a variance under this section shall include
a plat of survey, prepared by an Illinois registered land surveyor, showing the
resulting lots or tracts, and giving the legal descriptions therefor. (Ord.
1524, 3-19-1990)
3-11-9: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use of
any structure within a subdivision approved for platting until required utility
facilities have been installed and made ready to service the property, and
until roadways providing access to the subject lot have been constructed, or
are in the course of construction. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
3-11-10: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the county recorder's
office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the manner
prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 680, 1-17-1972)
3-11-11: RECORD OF PLATS:
All such plats of subdivision, after the same have been submitted and approved
as in this chapter provided, shall be copied upon a book of plats of the city
and shall be filed and kept by the city among the records of the city 1 . (Ord.
680, 1-17-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5, 5/11-15-1.
CHAPTER 12
DIXON HOME TELEPHONE COMPANY FRANCHISE
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 13
ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 2024, 9-30-1997)
CHAPTER 14
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE ORDINANCE
SECTION:
3-14-1: Short Title
3-14-2: Definitions
3-14-3: Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority
3-14-4: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
3-14-5: Territorial Area Involved
3-14-6: Liability And Indemnification
3-14-7: Color Television
3-14-8: Signal Quality Requirements
3-14-9: Number Of Channels
3-14-10: Operation And Maintenance Of System (Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-11: Carriage Of Signals
3-14-12: Program Alteration
3-14-13: Cable Distribution Of Obscene Material
3-14-14: Subscriber Controlled Program Selection
3-14-15: Service To Public Institutions
3-14-16: Emergency Use Of Facilities (Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-17: Safety Requirements
3-14-18: Conditions On Street Occupancy (Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-19: Erection, Removal And Common Use Of Poles
3-14-20: Rates
3-14-21: Preferential Or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
3-14-22: Removal Of Facilities Upon Request
3-14-23: Transfer Of Franchise
3-14-24: Forfeiture Of Franchise
3-14-25: Change Of Control Of Grantee
3-14-26: Filings And Communications With Regulatory Agencies
3-14-27: City Rights In Franchise
3-14-28: Maps, Plats And Reports
3-14-29: Payment To The City (Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-30: Written Permission Required To Sell Subscriber Listing
3-14-31: Catastrophic Damage
3-14-32: Modification Of Franchise Standards Or Applicable Law
3-14-33: Duration And Acceptance Of Franchise
3-14-34: Periodic Franchise Review Procedure
3-14-35: Rates And Charges
3-14-36: Miscellaneous
3-14-37: Severability
3-14-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this ordinance, hereinafter referred to as "chapter", the
following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meanings
given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word
"shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
CITY: City of Dixon, Illinois.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment, or other communications equipment, that is designed to provide the
cable service and other service to subscribers. Said term shall also be
referred to as "CATV system" or "system".
COUNCIL: Dixon city council.
EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1990.
GRANTEE: An entity that is granted a franchise agreement under the terms of
this chapter.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-3: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the city to the grantee the nonexclusive
right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain, in, upon, along,
across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public
places now laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions
thereto, in the city, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and
other television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and
operation in the city of a CATV system for the interception, sale and
distribution of television and radio signals, in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the United States Of America, the state of Illinois, and the
ordinances and regulations of the city for the period provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The right to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways and
places for the purpose herein set forth shall not be exclusive, and the city
reserves the right to grant a similar use of said streets, alleys, public ways
and public places, to any person at any time during the period of this
franchise. In the event the city enters into a franchise, permit, license,
authorization or other agreement of any kind with any other person or entity
other than the grantee for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable
system or providing cable service to any part of the franchise area which
contains terms more favorable to such person or entity in any regard than
similar provisions of this chapter, then this chapter shall be deemed amended
as of the effective date of the other franchise, permit, license,
authorization, or other agreement, so as to give the grantee the benefit of any
such more favorable terms. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-4: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
Grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject to
all city ordinances and the lawful exercise of the police power by the city and
to such reasonable regulations as the city shall hereafter provide insofar as
such ordinances and regulations are not materially inconsistent with this
chapter or a degradation of grantee's rights under this chapter, and insofar as
such ordinances and regulations do not impose material obligations on the
grantee without the grantee's approval or except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-5: TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED:
The area for which this franchise is granted shall encompass the present
corporate limits of the city. The grantee shall construct and provide service
to those customers which are currently served by the cable television system.
Grantee agrees to extend its service via aerial lines, in accordance with
normal installation rates, to any locations within the franchise area not now
having service available which has a density of fifteen (15) homes per one-
fourth (1/4) mile measured from the nearest trunk line. All installation to
areas not now having service and which do not meet the standard described
above, will be on a time plus materials basis. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-6: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   (A)   Grantee shall pay and by its acceptance of this franchise the grantee
specifically agrees that it will pay all damages and penalties which the city
may legally be required to pay as a result of grantee's operations under this
franchise. These damages or penalties shall include, but shall not be limited
to, damages arising out of copyright infringements and all other damages
arising out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this franchise.
   (B)   Grantee shall pay and by its acceptance of this franchise specifically
agrees that it will pay all expenses incurred by the city in defending itself
with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in subsection (A) of this
section, except for negligent acts by the city or its employees or ultra vires
acts by the city. These expenses shall include all out of pocket expenses, such
as reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-7: COLOR TELEVISION:
The facilities used by the grantee shall be capable of distributing color
television signals, and when the signals the grantee distributes are received
in color, they shall be distributed in color where technically feasible. (Ord.
1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-8: SIGNAL QUALITY REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a
manner consistent with those guidelines set forth by the federal communications
commission.
   (B)   Grantee shall limit failures to a minimum by locating and correcting
malfunctions promptly.
   (C)   Grantee shall demonstrate by instruments and otherwise to subscribers
that a signal of adequate strength and quality is being delivered. (Ord. 1520,
3-5-1990)
3-14-9: NUMBER OF CHANNELS:
Grantee's cable distribution system shall have a minimum of thirty one (31)
activated channels. The grantee's cable television system shall maintain one
channel which shall be available for public, governmental, educational and
leased access for use by appropriate parties. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-10: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
(Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-11: CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS:
Grantee shall receive and distribute television and radio broadcast signals
which are disseminated to the general public only in accordance with all
applicable rules and regulations of the federal communications commission.
(Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-12: PROGRAM ALTERATION:
All programming of broadcasting stations carried by the grantee shall be
carried in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-13: CABLE DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATERIAL:
Regarding obscene programming, the city and grantee shall comply with the rules
and regulations of the cable communications policy act of 1984. (Ord. 1520, 3-
5-1990)
3-14-14: SUBSCRIBER CONTROLLED PROGRAM SELECTION:
Grantee shall make available, by sale or lease, a parental control device by
which a subscriber can prohibit the viewing of a premium service (a service for
which a fee in addition to the basic service fee is charged) during periods
selected by that subscriber. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-15: SERVICE TO PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS:
Grantee shall provide basic service free of charge for one drop in the city
hall, the city library, city police department, city fire department
(collectively referred to as "governmental buildings"), and in each public,
private and parochial school within the present city limits and passed by cable
upon request of the city. All attachments to the governmental buildings and to
the schools shall be at the expense of the grantee but distribution of the
system within such buildings shall be at the expense of the schools or the
responsible public agencies. This requirement is for the term of the franchise.
(Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-16: EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-17: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures
and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public.
   (B)   Grantee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures, and
other equipment in accordance with the requirements of the national electrical
safety code promulgated by the National Bureau Of Standards and the national
electrical code of the National Board Of Fire Underwriters and in such manner
that they will not unreasonably interfere with any installments of the city or
of a public utility serving the city.
   (C)   All structures, lines, equipment and connections in, over, under, and
upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways or places of the city,
wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept and maintained in a
safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order and repair. (Ord.
1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-18: CONDITIONS ON STREET OCCUPANCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-19: ERECTION, REMOVAL AND COMMON USE OF POLES:
   (A)   No poles or other wire holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the council with regard to location, height,
type and any other pertinent aspect. No location of any pole or wire holding
structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and such poles or
structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own expense
whenever the council reasonably determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby.
   (B)   Where poles or other wire holding structures already exist for use in
serving the city are available for use by the grantee, but grantee does not
make arrangements for such use, the council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if the council determines that the public convenience
would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are
just and reasonable.
   (C)   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make
use of the poles or other wire holding structures of the grantee, but agreement
therefor with the grantee cannot be reached, the council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration and upon such terms as the
council shall determine to be just and reasonable, if the council determines
that the use would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly
interfere with the grantee's present or future operations, subject to de novo
review if requested by either party. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-20: RATES:
Grantee shall inform the city clerk, in writing, of any rate changes at least
thirty (30) days before the effective date of the rate change. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-
1990)
3-14-21: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
Grantee shall not, as to service, service facilities, rules, regulations, or in
any other respect, make or grant any undue preference or advantage to any
person nor subject any person to any prejudice or disadvantage. (Ord. 1520, 3-
5-1990)
3-14-22: REMOVAL OF FACILITIES UPON REQUEST:
Upon termination of service to any subscriber, grantee shall promptly remove
all its facilities and equipment from the premises of such subscriber upon the
terminating subscriber's request. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-23: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
Grantee shall not transfer this franchise to another person without prior
written consent of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The requirements of this section shall not apply if the transfer is to an
entity under the control of the grantee. No such consent shall be required,
however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by
assignment of any rights, title or interest of grantee in the franchise or
cable system, in order to secure indebtedness. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-24: FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   In the event that the city determines that the grantee has not
complied with the terms of this franchise, it shall notify grantee in writing
of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance.
   (B)   Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice
described in subsection (A) of this section to: 1) respond to the city
contesting the assertion of noncompliance, or 2) cure default or, in the event
that by the nature of default such default cannot be cured within the thirty
(30) day period, to initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify
the city of the steps being taken and the projected date that such default will
be cured.
   (C)   In the event that grantee fails to respond to the notice described in
subsection (A) of this section pursuant to the procedures set forth in
subsection (B) of this section, or in the event that the alleged default is not
remedied for any reason within sixty (60) days after the grantee is notified of
the alleged default pursuant to subsection (A) of this section, the city
council shall schedule a public meeting to investigate the default. Such public
meeting shall be held during the council's next regularly scheduled meeting or
at a special meeting of the council which shall be scheduled not less than five
(5) business days from the day of the giving of notice therefor. The city shall
notify the grantee of the time and place of such meeting and provide the
grantee with an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Subject to applicable federal and state law, if, after such meeting,
the council determines that grantee is in default of any provision of this
chapter, the council may:
      1.   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under this
chapter, if any, including without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided, however, the foreclosure shall only be in such a manner and in such
amount as the council reasonably determines is necessary to remedy the default;
      2.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or other equitable
relief;
      3.   Declare the franchise to be revoked; or
      4.   Seek specific performance of any provision which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy as an alternative to damages.
Grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply promptly with
any provision of this chapter by reason of any failure of the city to enforce
prompt compliance.
   (E)   Grantee shall not be held in default, violation or noncompliance with
the provisions of this chapter, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating
thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by strikes,
acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably beyond its ability to
control. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-25: CHANGE OF CONTROL OF GRANTEE:
Prior written consent of the city council, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld, shall be required if ownership or control of more than
fifty percent (50%) of grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons,
none of whom own or control fifty percent (50%) or more of grantee on the
effective date hereof. By its acceptance of this franchise, the grantee
specifically grants and agrees that any such acquisition occurring without
prior approval of the city shall constitute a violation of this franchise by
the grantee. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-26: FILINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES:
Upon request, copies of all petitions, applications and communications
submitted by the grantee to the federal communications commission, securities
and exchange commission, or any other federal or state regulatory commission or
agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting CATV system
operations authorized pursuant to this franchise, shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days to the city clerk. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-27: CITY RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE:
   (A)   The right is hereby reserved to the council to adopt, in addition to:
1) the provisions contained herein, and 2) existing applicable ordinances, such
additional rules, regulations and ordinances as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of its lawful police power; provided that such rules, regulations, or
ordinances shall not be inconsistent with the rights granted herein.
   (B)   City shall have the right on a confidential basis to inspect the
books, records, maps, plans and other like materials of the grantee necessary
for enforcement of this chapter, upon reasonable written notice, at any time
during the normal business hours.
   (C)   City shall have the right, during the life of this franchise, to
install and maintain, free of charge, upon the poles of the grantee, any wire
and pole fixtures necessary for a police alarm system, on the conditions that:
1) such wire and pole fixtures do not interfere with the present and future
CATV operations of the grantee, and 2) the city indemnify the grantee against
any damage or injuries arising therefrom.
   (D)   City shall have the right to supervise all construction or
installation work performed subject to the provisions of this franchise and
make such inspections as it shall deem necessary to ensure compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other pertinent provisions of law.
   (E)   Subject to federal and state laws, at the expiration of the term for
which this franchise is granted, or upon its termination and cancellation as
provided for herein, the city shall have the right to require the grantee to
remove, at grantee's sole expense, all portions of the CATV system from all
public ways within the city.
   (F)   This franchise shall be renewable under the rules and regulations of
the cable communications policy act of 1984 and any amendments thereto.
   (G)   City may schedule and hold public meetings or meetings with the
grantee to review the performance by the grantee under this chapter, including
future plans of operation and performance.
   (H)   From time to time, and at any time, grantee has the right to modify
its rates and charges including, but not limited to, the implementation of
additional charges and rates; provided, however, that grantee shall give notice
to the city of any such modifications or additional charges thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date thereof. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-28: MAPS, PLATS AND REPORTS:
   (A)   Upon request, the grantee shall file with the city clerk true and
accurate maps or plats of all existing distribution systems.
   (B)   Grantee shall file annually with the city clerk, not later than April
1 of each year, a statement of gross revenues applicable to its operations
during the preceding twelve (12) month calendar, upon which the franchise fees
levied under this chapter are computed. These reports shall be certified as
accurate by the chief financial officer of the grantee and there shall be
submitted along with said reports such other reasonable information as the
council shall request for the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-
1990)
3-14-29: PAYMENT TO THE CITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-30: WRITTEN PERMISSION REQUIRED TO SELL SUBSCRIBER LISTING:
Grantee shall comply with the rules and regulations concerning subscriber
privacy contained in section 631 of the cable communications policy act of
1984. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-31: CATASTROPHIC DAMAGE:
Grantee shall not be held in default or noncompliance with the provisions of
the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating hereto, where
such noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by acts of God or other
events reasonably beyond its ability to control. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-32: MODIFICATION OF FRANCHISE STANDARDS OR APPLICABLE LAW:
   (A)   Should the federal communications commission modify or amend the
provisions of section 76.31 of its rules and regulations entitled "franchise
standards", such modifications or amendments shall be incorporated into this
franchise within one year of adoption of the modification or amendment, or at
the time this franchise is renewed, whichever occurs first, unless: 1)
otherwise agreed by the city and the grantee, or 2) required by law.
   (B)   Grantee and city agree that this chapter shall incorporate all
applicable law including, but not limited to, the cable communications policy
act of 1984 and the federal communications commission rules and regulations. In
the event applicable laws change by legislative or judicial decision during the
term of this franchise, said changes shall be incorporated into this franchise,
and shall take precedence over conflicting language in the franchise, including
the right of the city to regulate rates. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-33: DURATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   The franchise and the rights, privileges and authorities granted by
the city to the grantee shall be pursuant to a written franchise agreement
which shall be for a term not to exceed ten (10) years.
   (B)   If after the effective date hereof, any federal or state law or
regulation shall be enacted or amended, which would permit the city to charge a
fee in excess of five percent (5%), the city shall have the authority to do so
notwithstanding the grant of any franchise agreement. (Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
3-14-34: PERIODIC FRANCHISE REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   (A)   At the option of the city, grantee and city will conduct franchise
reviews on the second, fifth and eighth anniversaries of the effective date of
the franchise agreement.
Sixty (60) days prior to the franchise review date, city shall forward to the
grantee a written request to conduct a franchise review with a listing of items
to be discussed at the review session. Such listing may include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Technology changes, and
      2.   Basic and premium programming services which may or may not yet be
carried on the cable television system, and
      3.   Consumer complaints. (Ord. 2777, 4-5-2010)
   (B)   Grantee shall prepare background information for items listed by the
city and forward such information, along with discussion items selected by the
grantee, in writing to the city no later than ten (10) days prior to the
franchise review date.
   (C)   During the franchise review session, the city and the grantee shall
discuss the items listed by both parties. If, during the course of the
discussion, the city or grantee desire to further discuss specific items, an
additional meeting will be scheduled to more fully examine the economic,
technical and customer base implications of the specific items.
   (D)   If, at the end of the additional discussion, the city and grantee
agree amendments to the franchise are necessary to enable the implementation of
the desired items, such amendments will be agreed to by both parties and
incorporated into the franchise agreement. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-35: RATES AND CHARGES:
   (A)   City may not regulate the rates for the provision of cable services
and other service, including, but not limited to, ancillary charges relating
thereto, except as expressly provided herein and except as authorized pursuant
to federal or state law including, but not limited to, the cable communications
policy act of 1984, and federal communications commission rules and regulations
relating thereto.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event that
further amendments to federal or state laws or regulations concerning rate
regulation are changed to permit the city to regulate the rates which the
grantee charges its subscribers for basic service and the rates for such other
services that city may hereinafter be permitted to regulate by law or
regulation, this section shall be deemed immediately amended to grant the city
any and all rights which it may have as a result of those amendments, except
the grantee may, at its discretion and without consent of the city, increase
rates relating to basic service by an amount which is not more than five
percent (5%) per year or the amount of any identifiable increase in costs which
is attributable to the provision of basic service, whichever is less. (Ord.
1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-36: MISCELLANEOUS:
In the event of a lawful revocation or cancellation of this franchise by the
city, by reason of any provision or violation of any provision contained in
this chapter, no cause of action for damages shall accrue to the grantee by
reason of such revocation or cancellation. (Ord. 1520, 3-5-1990)
3-14-37: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase or portion of this chapter is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or any federal agency exercising jurisdiction thereover, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof. (Ord.
1520, 3-5-1990)
CHAPTER 14A
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-14A-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-14A-2: Enforcement
3-14A-3: Penalties
3-14A-4: Customer Credits
3-14A-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   (A)   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the city's boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the city's boundaries. However, any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action
by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord. 2670, 12-3-20077; amd. 2020
Code))
3-14A-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The city does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
city. (Ord. 2670, 12-3-2007)
3-14A-3: PENALTIES:
The city, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall not exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall
not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a
material breach per customer.
   (A)   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   (B)   The city shall give the cable or video provider written notice of any
alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least thirty
(30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material
breach.
   (C)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection (B) of this
section.
   (D)   No penalties will be assessed for a material breach that is out of the
reasonable control of the cable or video provider. (Ord. 2670, 12-3-2007; amd.
2020 Code)
3-14A-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The city hereby adopts a schedule of customer credits for violations. Those
credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for
the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of
the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord.
2670, 12-3-2007; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 14B
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-14B-1: Definitions
3-14B-2: Fee Imposed
3-14B-3: Applicable Principles
3-14B-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-14B-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-14B-6: Late Fees; Payments
3-14B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the city.
   (A)   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection (A)9 of
this definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   (B)   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   (C)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401, or a grantee as defined in the cable television franchise
ordinance.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a city for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
3-14B-2: FEE IMPOSED:
   (A)   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the city.
   (B)   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues. In the event that a federal or
state law is enacted that permits a fee in excess of five percent (5%), the
city shall be permitted, upon advance written notice to holder, to unilaterally
increase the rate of the fee to an amount not to exceed seven percent (7%).
Said increase shall be effective sixty (60) days from the date of the mailing
of said notice. If, after the effective date of the seven percent (7%) fee is
imposed, any federal or state law or regulation be enacted or amended which
would permit a fee in excess of seven percent (7%), city and holders agree to
negotiate in good faith an increase in the fee paid by grantee.
   (C)   Notice To The City: The holder shall notify the city at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the city.
   (D)   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-401(b)(6) to the city.
   (E)   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee, along with a
statement certifying the gross revenues collected from the operation of the
business for the prior three (3) month period ending March 31, September 30 and
December 31 of each year, shall be due on a quarterly basis, forty five (45)
days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered
paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall include a statement
explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to impose an
additional fee on existing cable service or video service providers that have
an existing franchise agreement with the city in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that has been
operating under an existing agreement with credit for prepaid franchise fees
under that agreement, may deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that
operator owes under subsection (B) of this section. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
3-14B-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
3-14B-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
3-14B-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   (A)   Holder Requirements: The city will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
city. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
   (B)   Audit Requirement: The finance director or a certified public
accountant employed by her is hereby authorized to investigate on a
confidential basis the correctness and accuracy of any statement filed pursuant
to this chapter, and for that purpose shall have access at all reasonable
times, upon reasonable notice, to the books, documents, papers and records of
the grantee in order to ascertain the accuracy thereof. The city shall have the
right and privilege, by and through its auditor and other persons designated as
agents, to examine the books, vouchers, records of the grantee, its successor
or assigns, in order to determine the amount to be paid to the city under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010; amd. Ord. 2887, 8-20-2012)
   (C)   Acceptance Of Payment: No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct, nor shall such acceptance
of payment be construed as a release of any claim which the city may have for
further or additional sums payable under the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the city's submission of an invoice for the
sum. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
3-14B-6: LATE FEES; PAYMENTS:
In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not made on or
before the dates specified in this chapter, grantee shall pay as additional
consideration:
   (A)   An interest charge, computed from such due date, at the annual rate of
nine percent (9%) per annum on the amount due, and
   (B)   A sum of money equal to two percent (2%) of the amount due in order to
defray those additional expenses and costs incurred by the city by reason of
delinquent payment. (Ord. 2776, 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 14C
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
3-14C-1: Purpose And Scope
3-14C-2: Definitions
3-14C-3: Annual Registration Required
3-14C-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
3-14C-5: Action On Permit Applications
3-14C-6: Effect Of Permit
3-14C-7: Revised Permit Drawings
3-14C-8: Insurance
3-14C-9: Indemnification
3-14C-10: Security
3-14C-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
3-14C-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
3-14C-13: General Construction Standards
3-14C-14: Traffic Control
3-14C-15: Location Of Facilities
3-14C-16: Construction Methods And Materials
3-14C-17: Vegetation Control
3-14C-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
3-14C-19: Cleanup And Restoration
3-14C-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
3-14C-21: Emergency Use Of Facilities
3-14C-22: Variances
3-14C-23: Penalties
3-14C-24: Enforcement
3-14C-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights of way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established prior
to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired
and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located, except as may
be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar
agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Compliance With Applicable Laws: Holder shall, at all times be subject
to all city ordinances and the lawful exercise of the police power by the city
and to such reasonable regulations as the city shall hereafter provide insofar
as such ordinances and regulations are not materially inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (I)   Sound Engineering Judgment: The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
   (J)   Safety: The city shall require all structures, lines, equipment and
connections in, over, under, and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, and
public ways or places of the city, wherever situated or located, to at all
times be kept and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in
good order and repair. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The city of Dixon.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Dixon.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The city director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city, or any small wireless facility as that term is
defined in Title 3, Chapter 14D, Section
3-14D-2 of the City Code.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
city director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
3-14C-4 and
3-14C-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
3-14C-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the city through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-
2010; 2020 Code)
3-14C-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
3-14C-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2778,
4-5-2010)
3-14C-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a
new facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the director of public works and obtaining a permit
from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit
shall be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
   (B)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
3-14C-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
3-14C-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
3-14C-22 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district (other local or state entities with jurisdiction), have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the city director
of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the city director of public works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the city director of
public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the city director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the city director of public works, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the city not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The city director
of public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the city director of public works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
3-14C-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
city an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided
the holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights of way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   (B)   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the city with such city representatives
in attendance as the city deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose
of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special considerations
necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without limitation,
presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and their
locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of rights of
way by the public during construction, and access and egress by adjacent
property owners.
   (D)   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
3-14C-22 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-8: INSURANCE:
   (A)   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections (A)1
and (A)2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City Mayor of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection (A) of this section, or the requirements of
subsections (B), (C) and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-
insure shall provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements
required under subsection (A) of this section, such as evidence that the
utility is a "private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   (F)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-10: SECURITY:
   (A)   Purpose: The permittee shall maintain a construction bond in the
amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) until the completion of the
work authorized under the permit. The security fund shall serve as security
for:
      1.   The completion of the construction undertaken by permittee;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form: The security provided shall be in the form of a surety bond,
which shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the state
of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount: The surety bond shall be in the amount of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) per permit unless another amount is determined by the city
director of public works. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   City Right To Revoke Permit: The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   (D)   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection (A) of this
section.
   (E)   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection (C) of this section, the city or
its designee may, at the option of the city: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events
to the city for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   (A)   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   (B)   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right of
way.
   (C)   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-
2010)
3-14C-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall
be performed with ordinary care and shall be consistent with applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and commonly recognized and
accepted traffic control and construction principles, sound engineering
judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards set forth in the
following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   (B)   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the city director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the city director of public works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   (A)   Minimum Requirements: The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   (B)   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   (C)   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
3-14C-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the city director of public works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
city's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
      6.   Use Of Existing Structures: Where the city or a public utility
serving the city desires to make use of the poles or other wire holding
structures of the utility, but agreement therefor with the holder cannot be
reached, the city may require holder to permit such use for such consideration
and upon such terms as the city shall determine to be just and reasonable, if
the city determines that the use would enhance the public convenience and would
not unduly interfere with the holder's present or future operations.
   (B)   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way
line and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face
of the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communication line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2778,
4-5-2010)
3-14C-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   (A)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         (a)   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         (b)   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         (a)   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the city director of public works.
         (b)   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         (c)   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection (A)4
is permitted under section
3-14C-22 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the director of public works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated
only if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by city)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   (B)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         (a)   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         (b)   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         (d)   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director of public works. With the approval of
the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the city director of public
works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (E)   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2778,
4-5-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
3-14C-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   (A)   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Any other utility
shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and public places of the city so as to prevent the branches of such
trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the utility without
further permit from the city. Tree trimming that is done by any other utility
with facilities in the right of way and that is not performed pursuant to
applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically governing same, shall not
be considered a normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application
for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required
under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   (A)   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
city, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any City improvement in or upon, or the operations of the City in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The City retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Moving Of Buildings: Holder shall, upon the request of any person
holding a building permit issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its
wires to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal,
raising, or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same,
and the holder shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
holder shall be given not less than forty eight (48) hours' advance notice to
arrange for such temporary changes.
   (E)   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the City, the utility shall notify the City within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice, the City may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the City Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the City does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
City, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights-of-way
are disturbed or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the utility,
all to the satisfaction of the City. This includes restoration of entrances and
side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the City Director of Public Works. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or
any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. For
sidewalks, restoration shall be made in such a manner as to make the sidewalk
accessible to persons with disabilities by complying with all relevant rules
and regulations of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 USC section
12101 et seq. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
City Director of Public Works for good cause shown. (Ord. 3140, 5-6-2019)
3-14C-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the City and at the utility's expense. Upon request, the holder
shall file with the City true and accurate maps or plats of all existing
distribution systems so the City can contact the appropriate entity if
maintenance is necessary.
   (B)   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the City police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-21: EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   The City shall have the right to install and maintain, free of charge,
upon the poles of any holder, any wire and pole fixtures necessary for a police
alarm system, on the conditions that such wire and pole fixtures do not
interfere with the present and future operations of the holder and that the
City indemnify the holder against any damage or injuries arising therefrom.
   (B)   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon the
request of the City Council, make available its facilities to the City for
emergency during the emergency or disaster period. In the event of use by the
City, it will hold the holder harmless from such use. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-22: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority To Grant Variances: The City Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The City Director of Public Works
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Director of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-23: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when
the City will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because
the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
City's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility
that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
   (B)   Holder shall pay all damages and penalties which the City may legally
be required to pay as a result of holder's operations.
   (C)   Holder shall be responsible for and pay all expenses incurred by the
City in defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties incurred
because of holder's actions or operations, except for negligent acts by the
City or its employees, or ultra vires acts by the City. These expenses shall
include all out of pocket expenses, including attorney fees.
   (D)   Holder shall not be held to be in noncompliance with any aspect of
this chapter, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating hereto, where such
noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by acts of God or other events
reasonably beyond its ability to control. (Ord. 2778, 4-5-2010)
3-14C-24: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
2778, 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 14D
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-14D-1: Purpose
3-14D-2: Definitions
3-14D-3: Permitted Use
3-14D-4: Permit Requirements
3-14D-5: Application Fees
3-14D-6: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
3-14D-7: Annual Fee
3-14D-8: Miscellaneous
3-14D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations, standards and
procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way on
property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a
manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act
(P.A. 100-0585), as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-2020)
3-14D-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this Chapter, shall have the following
meanings:
                                        Communications equipment that transmits
ANTENNA:                                or receives electromagnetic radio
                                        frequency signals used in the provision
                                        of wireless services.
                                        Uniform building, fire, electrical,
                                        plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted
APPLICABLE CODES:                       by a recognized national code
                                        organization or local amendments to
                                        those codes, including the National
                                        Electric Safety Code.
                                        Any person who submits an application,
APPLICANT:                              as more specifically provided for
                                        herein, and is a wireless provider.
                                        A request submitted by an applicant to
                                        the City for a permit to collocate
                                        small wireless facilities, and a
APPLICATION:                            request that includes the installation
                                        of a new utility pole for such
                                        collocation, as well as any applicable
                                        fee for the review of such application.
                                        To install, mount, maintain, modify,
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION:               operate, or replace wireless facilities
                                        on or adjacent to a wireless support
                                        structure or utility pole.
                                        Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
                                        522(6), as amended; information
                                        service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
                                        (24), as amended; telecommunications
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:                 service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
                                        (53), as amended; mobile service, as
                                        defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as
                                        amended; or wireless service other than
                                        mobile service.
                                        A cable operator, as defined in 47
                                        U.S.C. 522(5), as amended; a provider
                                        of information service, as defined in
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER:        47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; a
                                        telecommunications carrier, as defined
                                        in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as amended; or a
                                        wireless provider.
FCC:                                    The Federal Communications Commission
                                        of the United States.
FEE:                                    A one-time charge.
                                        A building, property, or site, or group
                                        of buildings, properties, or sites that
                                        are either (i) listed in the National
                                        Register of Historic Places or formally
                                        determined eligible for listing by the
                                        Keeper of the National Register, the
                                        individual who has been delegated the
                                        authority by the federal agency to list
                                        properties and determine their
                                        eligibility for the National Register,
                                        in accordance with Section VI(D)(1)(a)
                                        (i) through Section VI(D)(1)(a)(v) of
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
                                        codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C;
                                        or (ii) designated as a locally
                                        landmarked building, property, site, or
                                        historic district by an ordinance
                                        adopted by the City pursuant to a
                                        preservation program that meets the
                                        requirements of the Certified Local
                                        Government Program of the Illinois
                                        State Historic Preservation Office or
                                        where such certification of the
                                        preservation program by the Illinois
                                        State Historic Preservation Office is
                                        pending.
                                        A federal or State statute, common law,
LAW:                                    code, rule, regulation, order or local
                                        ordinance or resolution.
                                        A small wireless facility that is not
                                        larger in dimension than twenty four
                                        (24) inches in length, fifteen (15)
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY:                inches in width, and twelve (12) inches
                                        in height and that has an exterior
                                        antenna, if any, no longer than eleven
                                        (11) inches.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE:                 A utility pole owned or operated by the
                                        City in public rights-of-way.
                                        A written authorization required by the
PERMIT:                                 City to perform an action or initiate,
                                        continue, or complete a project.
                                        An individual, corporation, limited
PERSON:                                 liability company, partnership,
                                        association, trust, or other entity or
                                        organization.
                                        The functional division of the federal
                                        government, the State, a unit of local
                                        government, or a special purpose
                                        district located in whole or in part
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY:                   within this State, that provides or has
                                        authority to provide firefighting,
                                        police, ambulance, medical, or other
                                        emergency services to respond to and
                                        manage emergency incidents.
RATE:                                   A recurring charge.
                                        The area on, below, or above a public
                                        roadway, highway, street, public
RIGHT-OF-WAY:                           sidewalk, alley, or utility easement
                                        dedicated for compatible use. Right-of-
                                        way does not include City-owned aerial
                                        lines.
                                        A wireless facility that meets both of
                                        the following qualifications: (i) each
                                        antenna is located inside an enclosure
                                        of no more than six (6) cubic feet in
                                        volume or, in the case of an antenna
                                        that has exposed elements, the antenna
                                        and all of its exposed elements could
                                        fit within an imaginary enclosure of no
                                        more than six (6) cubic feet; and (ii)
                                        all other wireless equipment attached
                                        directly to a utility pole associated
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY:                with the facility is cumulatively no
                                        more than twenty-five (25) cubic feet
                                        in volume. The following types of
                                        associated ancillary equipment are not
                                        included in the calculation of
                                        equipment volume: electric meter,
                                        concealment elements,
                                        telecommunications demarcation box,
                                        ground-based enclosures, grounding
                                        equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
                                        off switch, and vertical cable runs for
                                        the connection of power and other
                                        services.
                                        A pole or similar structure that is
                                        used in whole or in part by a
UTILITY POLE:                           communications service provider or for
                                        electric distribution, lighting,
                                        traffic control, or a similar function.
                                        Equipment at a fixed location that
                                        enables wireless communications between
                                        user equipment and a communications
                                        network, including: (i) equipment
                                        associated with wireless
                                        communications; and (ii) radio
                                        transceivers, antennas, coaxial or
                                        fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
                                        power supplies, and comparable
                                        equipment, regardless of technological
WIRELESS FACILITY:                      configuration. Wireless facility
                                        includes small wireless facilities.
                                        Wireless facility does not include: (i)
                                        the structure or improvements on,
                                        under, or within which the equipment is
                                        collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul
                                        facilities, coaxial or fiber optic
                                        cable that is between wireless support
                                        structures or utility poles or coaxial,
                                        or fiber optic cable that is otherwise
                                        not immediately adjacent to or directly
                                        associated with an antenna.
                                        Any person authorized to provide
                                        telecommunications service in the State
                                        that builds or installs wireless
                                        communication transmission equipment,
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER:       wireless facilities, wireless support
                                        structures, or utility poles and that
                                        is not a wireless services provider but
                                        is acting as an agent or a contractor
                                        for a wireless services provider for
                                        the application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER:                      A wireless infrastructure provider or a
                                        wireless services provider.
                                        Any services provided to the general
                                        public, including a particular class of
                                        customers, and made available on a
WIRELESS SERVICES:                      nondiscriminatory basis using licensed
                                        or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a
                                        fixed location or mobile, provided
                                        using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER:             A person who provides wireless
                                        services.
                                        A freestanding structure, such as a
                                        monopole; tower, either guyed or self-
                                        supporting; billboard; or other
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE:             existing or proposed structure designed
                                        to support or capable of supporting
                                        wireless facilities. Wireless support
                                        structure does not include a utility
                                        pole. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-2020)
 
3-14D-3: PERMITTED USE:
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as a permitted use within the
City and are subject to administrative staff review, except as provided for in
section 3-14D-6(H) and (I) relating to height exceptions and variances. (Ord.
3196, 4-20-2020)
3-14D-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the City to collocate a
small wireless facility. Applications received and processed, and permits
issued pursuant to this Chapter, shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
   (A)   Small Cell Facilities Permit Application: Prior to issuance of a
permit under this Chapter for the collocation of small wireless facilities onto
utility poles or wireless support structures, a wireless provider shall submit
an application to the city building official which contains the following
information:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      6.   Certification that collocation complies with the Collocation
Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge;
      7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      8.   Proof of such insurance carried by the wireless provider
demonstrating the wireless provider's compliance with the insurance
requirements of section 3-14D-8(F) herein.
   (B)   Submission Of Application: Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information and notices to the City by personal delivery at the
City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked on the date due
or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
      1.   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      2.   Existing Utility Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: An application
to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure, or replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be
deemed approved if the City fails to approve or deny the application within
ninety (90) days after the submission of a completed application.
      However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy-five
(75) days after the submission of a completed application.
      The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of: (i) ninety (90)
days after submission of the complete application; or (ii) ten (10) days after
the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this Chapter.
      3.   New Utility Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: An application to
collocate a small wireless facility that includes the installation of a new
utility pole shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed
approved if the City fails to approve or deny the application within one
hundred twenty (120) days after the submission of a completed application.
      However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred
five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
      The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of: (i) one hundred
twenty (120) days after submission of the complete application; or (ii) ten
(10) days after receipt of the deemed approved notice by the City. Receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this Chapter.
      4.   Denial Of Application: The City shall deny an application which does
not meet the requirements of this Chapter.
      If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations
that concern public safety, or the conditions contained in section 3-14D-
6 herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
      The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific
code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and
send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
      The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
      The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
      Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies
cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the
cure requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
      5.   Small Wireless Facilities Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30)
days after an approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, and in any event, prior to the commencement of
installation, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Small
Wireless Facilities Attachment Agreement, to be provided by the City, for the
initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a License
Supplement of the Master Small Wireless Facilities Attachment Agreement. The
Master Small Wireless Facilities Attachment Agreement contains additional
requirements that are applicable to the wireless provider and the small
wireless facility.
   (D)   Application Approval: Within thirty (30) days after receiving an
application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
   (E)   Tolling Period: The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
      1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City; or
      2.   A local, State or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   (F)   Consolidated Applications: An applicant shall be allowed to file a
consolidated application and receive a single permit for the collocation of up
to twenty-five (25) small wireless facilities if the collocations each involve
substantially the same type of small wireless facility and substantially the
same type of structure.
      If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City
may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless collocations for which incomplete information has
been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are
denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation that is
approved in a consolidated application.
   (G)   Permit Duration: The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless
the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this Chapter.
   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable City code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-2020)
3-14D-5: APPLICATION FEES:
   (A)   Existing Utility Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: Every application
for the collocation of small wireless facilities upon existing utility poles or
wireless support structures shall be charged an application fee according to
the following fee schedule:
      1.   Application for single small wireless facility. Applicant shall pay
an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars ($650) for an application to
collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure.
      2.   Consolidated applications. Applicant shall pay an application fee of
three hundred fifty dollars ($350) for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   New Utility Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: Every application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility involving the installation of a
new utility pole or wireless support structure shall be charged an application
fee according to the following fee schedule:
      1.   Application involving installation of a new utility pole or wireless
support structure. Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand
dollars ($1,000) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application
that includes the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support
structure.
   (C)   Application Fee Non-refundable: Notwithstanding any contrary provision
of State law or local ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by the required application fee. Application fees shall be non-
refundable.
   (D)   Application And Permit Not Required: The City shall not require an
application, approval or permit, or require any fees or other charges, from a
communications service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement and
includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment consistent
with this Chapter; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable codes.
   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work within
rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-2020)
3-14D-6: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
Chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications. A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance
with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
   The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Prohibited Areas: The wireless provider shall not collocate small
wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility
may be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance With Applicable Law: The wireless provider shall comply
with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern
public safety.
   (F)   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district. At a minimum,
the wireless provider shall screen or conceal, as applicable, all pole-mounted
and ground-mounted equipment in the public right-of-way with aesthetic features
such as canisters, paint, screen walls, and landscaping as approved by the City
with each permit. Concealing and screening shall blend with or enhance the
surrounding area with the use of artistic and/or architectural detail and shall
take into account scale, form, texture, materials and color and shall conceal
the equipment. Concealing and screening features shall be noted on the site
survey and construction drawings submitted with each application.
   (G)   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this section 3-14D-6, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the City may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred (100) feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
   (H)   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten (10) feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which
small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      1.   Ten (10) feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred (300) feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred (300) feet of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
      2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a variance in writing to the city building official as part of the
permit application. The request shall identify each provision of this Chapter
from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should be
granted. A variance shall be requested for each proposed small wireless
facility that exceeds the above height limitations and shall be reviewed on a
separate and independent basis. A request for variance shall be processed by
the City as follows:
      1.   The city building official shall decide whether a variance is
authorized for each provision of this Chapter identified in the variance
request on an individual basis.
      2.   The city building official may authorize a variance only if the
applicant requesting the variance has demonstrated that: (a) one or more
conditions not under the control of the applicant (such as terrain features or
an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship that would make
enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public purposes to be
achieved by the provision; and (b) all other designs, methods, materials,
locations or facilities that would conform with the provision from which a
variance is requested are impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      3.   Any applicant aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the building official
under the provision of this Chapter shall have the right to appeal to the city
council, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The application
for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the city clerk within thirty (30)
days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or determination. The
city council shall commence its consideration of the appeal at the council's
next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7) days after the
filing of the appeal. The city council shall timely decide the appeal.
   (J)   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (K)   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances. If such code or ordinance does not
include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance, then the applicant shall be permitted to
apply for a variance under the same conditions and restrictions as set forth in
section 3-14D-6(I) herein.
   (L)   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or ordinances concerning undergrounding requirements that
prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles
in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a waiver,
zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new utility
poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement
of utility poles. If such code or ordinance does not include a waiver, zoning
or other process that addresses wireless provider requests for exception or
variance, then the applicant shall be permitted to apply for a variance under
the same conditions and restrictions as set forth in section 3-14D-6(I) herein.
   (M)   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant. (Ord. 3196, 4-
20-2020)
3-14D-7: ANNUAL FEE:
A wireless provider shall pay to the City an annual fee to collocate a small
wireless facility on a City utility pole according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Located On The Right-Of-Way: If the small wireless facility is
collocated on a City utility pole located in the right-of-way, the wireless
provider shall be charged an annual fee that equals the greater of (i) two
hundred dollars ($200) per year; or (ii) the actual, direct and reasonable
costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
   (B)   Located Outside The Right-Of-Way: If the small wireless facility is
collocated on a City utility pole located outside the right-of-way, the
wireless provider shall be charged an annual fee that equals the actual, direct
and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the
City utility pole.
   If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-
2020)
3-14D-8: MISCELLANEOUS:
   (A)   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this Chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18(c)-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in Section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
   For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given
to that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement (a) to
obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or (b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this Chapter.
   (B)   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2020, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2020, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2020, shall comply with this Chapter.
   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this Chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (C)   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may, at the wireless provider's cost, remove or cause
the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its Master Small Wireless
Facilities Attachment Agreement or through whatever actions are provided for
abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. Any such transfer shall be subject in all respects to the terms of
the Master Small Wireless Facilities Attachment Agreement with the City.
   (D)   Dispute Resolution: The Circuit Court of Lee County shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under this Chapter.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200) per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (E)   Indemnification: A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the City improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this Chapter and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the City or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the City with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (F)   Insurance: The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless
provider's own cost and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; and
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the City improvements or rights-of-way with limits not less than:
(a) five million dollars ($5,000,000) for bodily injury or death to each
person; (b) five million dollars ($5,000,000) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and (c) five million dollars ($5,000,000) for all other
types of liability. The wireless provider shall include the City and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of such parties in a commercial general
liability policy with its permit application, and at any rate, prior to the
installation of any small wireless facility.
   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this Section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 3196, 4-20-2020)
CHAPTER 15
SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Attachment To System
3-15-2: Connection Restriction
3-15-3: Wastewater Service Charge
3-15-4: No Additional Service; Fee Paid
3-15-5: Special Sewer Taps
3-15-6: Permit
3-15-7: Restrictions, Authority Of Inspections
3-15-8: Violation
3-15-9: Penalty
3-15-10: Intent And Purpose
3-15-1: ATTACHMENT TO SYSTEM:
The city sewerage system now or henceforth located or extended beyond the
corporate limits may be attached thereto by individuals, groups, corporations,
companies or others who can demonstrate the need for such attachment and remain
outside the corporate limits. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-2: CONNECTION RESTRICTION:
No hook up shall be allowed outside the corporate limits except where
annexation is legally impossible. The property must be annexed immediately when
possible.
Connection to the public sewerage system of the city by a user located outside
the corporate limits of the city shall be allowed only under the following
conditions:
   (A)   The user is unable to annex to the city because the user's territory
is not adjacent or contiguous to the city;
   (B)   The user agrees in writing to petition the city for annexation to the
city when its territory becomes adjacent and contiguous to the city;
   (C)   Annexation to the city can be anticipated in the foreseeable future;
   (D)   The city derives and will continue to derive a significant economic
benefit from the user or there is a potential economic benefit from the user
that the city will derive;
   (E)   The economic benefit derived by the city shall exceed the cost, if
any, incurred by the city for the extension of such sewer service;
   (F)   The user shall pay the cost of extending the sewer service from
existing sewer lines to the extremities of their property for easy access by
future upstream extensions, and all engineering and maintenance cost. The city
may, in its discretion, contribute to the cost of extending the sewer line if
the city requires the user to install a sewer line of larger than the standard
size as defined elsewhere in this code; further, that all plans for the
extension of sewer service shall be approved by the city engineer and shall be
subject to all other provisions of this code relating to the construction of
sewers;
   (G)   The city may require the sewer extension be constructed in such manner
to facilitate the connection and the use thereof by other users. The user
constructing the extension of the sewer line in accordance with the city
requirements may recover a pro rata share of the cost of construction from
other users. The pro rata share of such cost shall be determined by the
building official and approved by the city council;
   (H)   An attachment fee shall be assessed equal to that charged others on
the line or two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), whichever is greater.
   (I)   Installation of meters.
      1.   All users of the sewerage system discharging water into the sewerage
system who procure any part, or all, of their water from sources other than the
waterworks system of the city, all or part of which is discharged into the
sewerage system, shall, if directed by the city, install and maintain at his,
her or its expense, water meters of a type approved by the building official of
the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of wastewater discharged may be
required by the building official if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
      3.   Water meters and metering devices for determining the volume of the
wastewater discharge shall be installed, owned and maintained by the person.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed without the
consent of the building official. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-3: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for services supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the city to users located outside the city limits
shall consist of a fixed administrative service charge, a basic user charge, a
debt service charge, a capital improvement charge and surcharge. The service
charge shall be computed pursuant to subsection
3-9-27(A) of this title. (Ord. 1845, 9-19-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
3-15-4: NO ADDITIONAL SERVICE; FEE PAID:
No additional city service, other than sewer service, shall be allowed to
anyone outside the city limits for the fee paid as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-5: SPECIAL SEWER TAPS:
This chapter does not apply when special sewer taps have or might be given for
the right of way or easement agreements. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-6: PERMIT:
No person who may have complied with section
3-15-2 of this chapter may attach to the city sewerage system without first
having prepared and filed an application for connection to the sewerage system
with the building official and the clerk and having secured a permit for the
work described upon said permit and paid the necessary attachment fees. (Ord.
1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-7: RESTRICTIONS, AUTHORITY OF INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   All city plumbing code restrictions and attachment restrictions as
applicable inside the city limits must be conformed with before attachment
outside the city limits is made. All waste discharged into the public sewers of
the city under this chapter shall conform to the restrictions contained in this
code.
   (B)   A visual inspection must be made prior to the attachment by the
building official before the excavation for such attachment is covered.
   (C)   The building official and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
the properties at a reasonable time where sewer connection is to be made.
   (D)   House sanitary sewer services from the property to the sewer main
shall be four inches (4") diameter minimum. Sewer extensions to serve two (2)
or more houses shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") diameter cast iron pipe,
or larger, if so determined by the city building official. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-
1990)
3-15-8: VIOLATION:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the city with written notice, stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction or compliance
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-9: PENALTY:
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided in
section
3-15-8 of this chapter shall be immediately removed from sewer service.
   (A)   Removal from sewer service shall be accomplished by plugging the sewer
lateral from the offending property. All costs for the same may be recovered by
the city in proper action taken by it against the violator.
   (B)   Any person who shall have been removed from sewer service may again
apply and be eligible for reattachment upon the payment of one-half (1/2) the
original attachment fee plus all costs involved in the reattachment. (Ord.
1546, 7-16-1990)
3-15-10: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   Findings: The city council of the city finds and declares that the
provisions of this chapter are enacted for the following reasons:
      1.   To ensure that timely and complete payment of sewer charges arising
from sewer service to customers;
      2.   To assure compliance with chapter 9 of this title and this chapter;
      3.   To regulate termination of sewer service to residential, commercial
and business customers for nonpayment of sewer charges;
      4.   To provide full and adequate notice to a residential, business and
commercial customer of a termination of sewer service to that customer and of
the procedure to follow to avoid termination;
      5.   To provide residential, business and commercial customers with the
fair and reasonable opportunity, prior to termination, to dispute the
correctness of sewer charges;
      6.   To standardize the notice of termination and other notices sent to
residential, business and commercial customers;
      7.   To regulate termination of sewer service to residential, business
and commercial rental property for nonpayment of sewer charges.
   (B)   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to sewer services
supplied to residential, business and commercial customers.
   (C)   Sewer Bills: A sewer bill shall be mailed every ninety (90) days to
every sewer customer for sewer service supplied during the time period shown on
the bill. Each sewer bill shall contain the following information:
      1.   The time period and number of days of sewer service covered by the
sewer bill;
      2.   The sewer charge and/or installment and the sewer charge due;
      3.   The date of the sewer bill;
      4.   The date when complete payment is due at city hall, which shall be
at least twenty one (21) days from the date of the sewer bill;
      5.   Notice whether the sewer bill is based on an actual or an estimated
measurement of the amount of sewer service supplied;
      6.   Notice that failure to timely and completely pay the amount shown on
the sewer bill shall result in termination of sewer service; and
      7.   Notice that residential customers may call the city hall, which
telephone number shall be listed on the sewer bill, in order to:
         (a)   Dispute the amount of any sewer charge;
         (b)   Avoid termination of sewer service for nonpayment of the amounts
shown on the sewer bill;
         (c)   Request the restoration of sewer service; and
         (d)   Request answers to any other questions regarding sewer service.
   (D)   Customer Information: The sewage treatment department shall provide
information on the following:
      1.   The procedure to dispute a sewer bill;
      2.   The procedure to avoid termination of sewer service due to
nonpayment of sewer charge;
      3.   The procedure to avoid termination of sewer service due to the
landlord's nonpayment of sewer charges; and
      4.   The procedure for tenants to avoid termination of sewer service due
to the landlord's nonpayment of sewer charges; and
      5.   The procedure to obtain reinstatement of sewer service.
   (E)   Customer Dispute:
      1.   At any time before the date of termination of sewer service for
nonpayment of the amount shown on a sewer bill, or for a violation of chapter 9
of this title or this chapter or for a notice of rejection, a customer may
dispute the basis of the rejection or termination. The customer shall not be
entitled to dispute the basis of termination or rejection if the basis was the
subject of a previous dispute under this section.
      2.   The procedure for customer disputes shall be as follows:
         (a)   Before the date of termination, the customer shall notify the
superintendent of the sewage treatment department, orally or in writing, that
he disputes all or part of the amounts shown on the sewer bill, or any other
reason for termination, stating as completely as possible the basis for the
dispute.
         (b)   If the superintendent of the sewage treatment department
determines that the present dispute is untimely or that the customer previously
disputed the basis, the superintendent shall mail to the customer a notice
stating that the present dispute is untimely or invalid. A dispute is untimely
if filed after sewer service has been terminated. The superintendent shall then
proceed as if the customer had not notified the superintendent of the present
dispute.
         (c)   If the superintendent of the sewage treatment department
determines that the present dispute is not untimely or invalid under this
section, the superintendent of the sewage treatment department, within three
(3) days after receipt of the customer's notice, shall arrange an informal
meeting between the customer and the superintendent of the sewage treatment
department.
         (d)   Based on the sewage treatment department's records, the
customer's allegations and all other relevant materials available to the
superintendent of the sewage treatment department, the superintendent shall
attempt to resolve the dispute in a manner satisfactory to both the sewage
treatment department and the customer.
         (e)   Within five (5) days of completion of the meeting, the
superintendent of the sewage treatment department shall mail to the customer a
copy of his decision resolving the dispute.
         (f)   If the decision is unsatisfactory to the customer, the customer,
within five (5) days of his receipt of the sewage treatment department
superintendent's decision, may file, in writing with the superintendent a
request for a formal hearing before the city council.
         (g)   The formal hearing before the city council shall be held within
ten (10) days of the sewage treatment department superintendent's receipt of
the customer's written request.
         (h)   At the hearing, the superintendent of the sewage treatment
department and the customer shall be entitled to present all evidence that is,
in the council’s view, relevant and material to the dispute, and to examine and
cross examine witnesses. A tape recorded (or at the option of the sewage
treatment department, a stenographic) record of the hearing shall be
maintained.
         (i)   Based on the record established at the hearing, the city
council, within five (5) days of the completion of the hearing, shall issue his
written decision formally resolving the dispute. The decision shall be final
and binding on the sewage treatment department and on the customer.
      3.   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve a customer
of his obligation to: a) timely and completely pay all other undisputed sewer
charges, and the undisputed portions of the amounts which are the subject of
the present dispute; and b) to comply with chapter 9 of this title and this
chapter. Notwithstanding subsection (E)4 of this section failure to timely and
completely pay all such undisputed amounts or to comply with chapter 9 of this
title and this chapter, shall subject the customer to termination of sewer
service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Until the date of the sewage treatment superintendent's or the city
council’s decision, whichever is later, the sewage treatment department shall
not terminate the sewer service of the customer and shall not issue a notice of
termination to him solely based upon the matters in dispute. If it is
determined that the customer must pay some or all of the disputed amounts, or
must take some action to comply with chapter 9 of this title or this chapter,
the sewage treatment superintendent or the city council shall promptly mail to,
or personally serve upon the customer a notice of termination, which shall
contain the following:
         (a)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days after the date of the notice of termination; and
         (d)   Notice that unless the sewage treatment department receives
complete payment in the amount shown prior to the date of termination, or that
the violation has been corrected, sewer service shall be terminated under
subsection (F)4 of this section.
   (F)   Sewer Service Termination Procedure:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection (E)4 of this section, the
provisions of this section shall govern all terminations of sewer service for
nonpayment of utility charges or for failure to comply with chapter 9 of this
title or this chapter.
      2.   If by the payment date shown on the sewer bill the city has not
received complete payment of the amounts shown on the bill or the violation of
chapter 9 of this title or this chapter has not been corrected, the sewage
treatment department shall mail to, or personally serve upon the customer a
notice of termination at least three (3) days after the payment date or the
date the violation was to be corrected.
      3.   The notice of termination shall contain the following:
         (a)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days from the date of the notice of termination;
         (d)   Notice that unless the sewage treatment department receives
complete payment of the amount shown or that the violation has been corrected
prior to the date of termination, the sewer service shall be terminated under
subsection (F)4 of this section; and
         (e)   Notice that in lieu of paying the entire amount shown, a
customer, prior to the date of termination, may notify the superintendent of
the sewage treatment department that he disputes the correctness of all or part
of the amount shown, or that he disputes that he is in violation of chapter 9
of this title or this chapter. The basis of the dispute cannot have been the
subject of a previous dispute under this section.
      4.   If, prior to the date of termination:
         (a)   The sewage treatment department has not received complete
payment of the amount shown on the notice of termination;
         (b)   The customer has not notified the sewage treatment department
that he disputes the correctness of all or part of the amount shown on the
notice of termination;
         (c)   The customer has not notified the sewage treatment department
that he disputes that he has violated chapter 9 of this title or this chapter;
or
         (d)   The customer has not corrected the violation shown on the notice
of termination, then the sewage treatment department shall terminate sewer
service provided to the customer on the date of termination.
      5.   If the sewage treatment department receives payment of the entire
amount shown on the notice of termination or the violation has been corrected
prior to the date of termination, such payment or correction shall be
considered as timely for purposes of this chapter.
      6.   The provisions of this section shall govern all terminations of
sewer service for nonpayment of sewer service charges or for failure to comply
with chapter 9 of this title or this chapter. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990)
      7.   If a customer is delinquent in payment of any charges for any sewer
service on two (2) or more occasions within any one year period, the
superintendent of the sewage treatment department shall require the customer to
post a security deposit in a sum equal to three (3) months' average charges for
all sewer services, the average to be based upon the most recent twelve (12)
months of service. If a deposit as specified herein is required to be posted,
the notice of termination shall also include the amount of the security deposit
necessary to avoid termination of service. Failure to post the deposit shall
constitute an additional violation justifying termination of sewer service
under this section. Any such deposit shall be returned when service is
terminated and upon payment in full of all sewer charges. (Ord. 2524, 4-18-
2005)
   (G)   Limitations On Termination Of Sewer Service:
      1.   The sewage treatment department shall terminate sewer service only
during hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Monday
through Thursday. No termination shall be permitted on a legal holiday or on
the day before a legal holiday.
      2.   No terminations shall be permitted on a day when the low temperature
within the previous twenty four (24) hours, as reported by the national weather
service at its first order station nearest the residence, was below zero
degrees Fahrenheit (0°F). If sewer service to a residential customer has been
terminated, when the low temperature within the previous twenty four (24)
hours, as reported by the national weather service at its first order station
nearest the residence was below thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F), the
sewage treatment department shall notify the police department on the day of
termination of the following:
         (a)   The name of the customer;
         (b)   The address and location of the residence no longer receiving
sewer service; and
         (c)   The possible threat to the health and life of all persons
residing at the residence.
      3.   The sewage treatment department shall not terminate sewer service
for nonpayment of amounts less than twenty dollars ($20.00).
   (H)   Reinstatement Of Sewer Service: ln the event of termination of sewer
service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the sewage treatment
department shall reinstate sewer service to the customer within one full
working day of the sewage treatment department's receipt of: 1) complete
payment of the amount whose nonpayment prompted the termination or 2) notice
that the violation has been corrected. Such payment or correction of violation
shall not be considered a timely payment for purposes of this chapter.
   (I)   Computation Of Time: In computing any period of time prescribed by
this chapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of
time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so
computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday in which event the period runs until the next day which is not a
Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed is
less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays
shall be excluded in the computation. (Ord. 1546, 7-16-1990; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 16
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definitions
3-16-2: Specifically Regulated Encroachments
3-16-3: Encroachments; Unlawful
3-16-4: Project Right Of Way Lines
3-16-5: Revocable Permits
3-16-6: Additional Ruling
3-16-7: Temporary Encroachment
3-16-8: Revocation
3-16-9: Application Procedure
3-16-10: Penalty
3-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA: The area lying between the project right of way
limits and the platted street limits within which the city by concurrence in
the establishment of the project right of way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
ENCROACHMENT: Any buildings, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained, in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right of way or the roadway right of way where no project right of way line has
been established.
PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT: Any existing awning, marquee, or premises signs
advertising the activities on the property or similar overhanging structure
supported from a building immediately adjacent to the limits of the platted
street where there is a sidewalk extending to the building line and which does
not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on the highway, the permissive
retention of overhanging signs is not to be construed as being applicable to
those signs supported from poles constructed outside the project right of way
line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas within the project right of way lines
established jointly by the city, state and the federal highway administration,
which will be free of encroachments except as hereinafter defined.
ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect. (Ord. 807, 2-3-1975)
3-16-2: SPECIFICALLY REGULATED ENCROACHMENTS:
Improvement projects for which encroachments are specifically regulated are as
follows:
   (A)   Illinois Route 52, U.S. Route Alt. 30, SBI Route 2, state section 75W
and RS 8, from the intersection of Chicago Avenue and Franklin Grove Road and
Poplar Street in the city of Dixon at the southerly city limits on Chicago
Avenue to the southeasterly terminus thereof. (Ord. 639, 7-7-1970)
   (B)   Peoria Avenue Bridge, FAU project M-5018(1), section 65-BRC-CS. (Ord.
807, 2-3-1975)
   (C)   Galena Avenue (Illinois Route 26, FA Route 27, state section 101 RS-
1), from 7th Street to the Chicago Northwestern Railroad structure at the south
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 859, 6-7-1976)
   (D)   East 2nd Street and Ravine Avenue (Illinois Route 2, FA Route 698,
state section 39 RS-1 and 39 Y-1), from Galena Avenue to River Street. (Ord.
913, 8-1-1977)
   (E)   Chamberlin Street from Galena Avenue to Institute Boulevard, city
section 77-00082-00-PV. (Ord. 924, 1-16-1978)
   (F)   Galena Avenue (Illinois Route 26) Federal Aid Route 38, state section
101V-BR and 101-R, city section 86-00100-00-SW, from 7th Street to 582 feet
south of Bloody Gulch Road. (Ord. 1324, 5-5-1986)
3-16-3: ENCROACHMENTS; UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to
be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment (hereinabove
defined), except as provided in section
3-16-5 of this chapter, within the limits of the project right of way where no
project right of way lines have been established. (Ord. 807, 2-3-1975)
3-16-4: PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY LINES:
Project right of way lines have been established at the following locations:
(Ord. 807, 2-3-1975)
   (A)   East 2nd Street from Galena Avenue easterly to River Street, in the
city of Dixon, Illinois. (Ord. 913, 8-1-1977)
3-16-5: REVOCABLE PERMITS:
Revocable permits have been issued by the city for the temporary retention of
the following permissible encroachments:
   (A)   None. (Ord. 807, 2-3-1975)
3-16-6: ADDITIONAL RULING:
This chapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other ordinances,
rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be construed as
repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any ordinance unless in
direct conflict therewith. (Ord. 807, 2-3-1975)
3-16-7: TEMPORARY ENCROACHMENT:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, it shall be lawful
for the city council to grant to any person owning property adjacent to an
alley or roadway right of way a temporary encroachment to install entrance
driveways, sidewalks, signs, parking areas, drive-in facilities, fences
enclosing schools, organized parks, public recreational areas, day schools or
daycare centers, and curbs when such intended use shall not interfere with the
public use of the traveled portion of any such alley or roadway right of way
nor obstruct the vision of persons using the same. (Ord. 1902, 8-21-1995)
3-16-8: REVOCATION:
In the event that the city council shall grant such temporary encroachment
pursuant to section
3-16-7 of this chapter, the city may revoke the same by giving to such
permissive user notice of termination of such encroachment in writing at least
thirty (30) days beginning prior to the effective date of such termination.
Upon termination of any such temporary encroachment, the person requesting such
temporary encroachment and/or his successors in interest shall remove any such
encroachments within thirty (30) days of the notice of termination and restore
the area of encroachment back to its original condition. Any and all costs and
expenses incurred with regard to the construction and/or termination and/or
restoration of any such temporary encroachments shall be paid by the person
requesting such temporary encroachment and/or his successors in interest. (Ord.
1217, 3-5-1984)
3-16-9: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Any person desiring to obtain a temporary encroachment pursuant to section
3-16-7 of this chapter shall make written application to the city council for
such encroachment. (Ord. 1217, 3-5-1984)
3-16-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every
day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 1220, 4-23-1984; amd.
2020 Code)
CHAPTER 17
PETUNIA ENDOWMENT FUND
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 18
DIXON JAYCEES, EMERGENCY VEHICLE FUND
(Rep. by Ord. 1078, 5-4-1981)
CHAPTER 19
DIXON MEMORIAL ARCH PRESERVATION FUND
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 20
LEASING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR DIXON AIRPORT, CHARLES R. WALGREEN FIELD
SECTION:
3-20-1: Purpose
3-20-2: Definitions
3-20-3: Commercial Activity
3-20-4: Conduct
3-20-5: Flying Clubs
3-20-6: Leasing Information
3-20-7: Aircraft Sales; Basic Leasing Requirements
3-20-8: Airframe And/Or Power Plant Repair Facilities; Basic Leasing
Requirements
3-20-9: Aircraft Rental; Basic Leasing Requirements
3-20-10: Flight Training; Basic Leasing Requirements
3-20-11: Radio, Instrument Or Propeller Repair Service; Basic Leasing
Requirements
3-20-12: Air Taxi Service; Basic Leasing Requirements
3-20-13: Multiple Services; Basic Leasing Requirements
3-20-14: New Facilities
3-20-15: Hangar Rentals
3-20-16: Aircraft Fuel And Lubricant Dispensing
3-20-17: Liability
3-20-18: Indemnity
3-20-19: Revisions And Amendments
3-20-20: Penalties And Enforcement
3-20-1: PURPOSE:
These leasing standards and requirements have been established in the public
interest in order to permit the safe and efficient operation of the Airport on
fair and reasonable terms in accordance with the provisions of section 308 of
the Federal Aviation Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and part 21
of the regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, and
applicable grant agreements properly executed by the City and Federal Aviation
Regulations (FAR). (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-
2023)
3-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
                                  Any contrivance now known or hereafter
AIRCRAFT:                         invented, used or designed for navigation of
                                  or flight in the air, for the purpose of
                                  transporting persons or property or both.
                                  The members of the Dixon airport board
AIRPORT BOARD:                    established and appointed pursuant to Title
                                  II, Chapter 2 of this code. The Airport
                                  Board shall be an advisory board.
                                  Such person as may be designated from time
                                  to time by the Director of Public Works
AIRPORT MANAGER:                  having immediate charge and responsibility
                                  for the supervision of the daily operations
                                  and activities of the Airport.
                                  All property and improvements within the
AIRPORT:                          boundary lines of the Dixon Airport, Charles
                                  R. Walgreen Field, Dixon, Lee County,
                                  Illinois.
                                  Any person or organization engaged in
AVIATION OPERATOR:                business of an aviation nature under
                                  authority of a lease or permit from the
                                  City.
CITY:                             City of Dixon, Illinois.
                                  Those Aviation Operators who furnish and
                                  engage in one or more of the following
                                  activities: sale of aviation fuel and
FIXED BASE OPERATOR:              lubricants; line service; sale of aircraft
                                  parts and supplies; maintenance and repair
                                  of airframes and engines; aircraft charter,
                                  taxi and rental; flight training; radio,
                                  instrument or propeller repair service.
OPERATION OF AIRCRAFT OR AIRCRAFT Any use or movement of aircraft.
OPERATION:
OWNER AND OPERATOR OF AIRPORT:    The City of Dixon, Illinois.
                                  Any individual, firm, co-partnership,
                                  corporation, company, association, society,
PERSON:                           group or duly authorized representative
                                  thereof, singular and plural. (Ord. 1052, 9-
                                  15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-
                                  2023)
 
3-20-3: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY:
   (A)   Any commercial activity which involves, makes possible or is required
for the operation of aircraft, or which contributes to or is required for the
safety of such operations shall be known as an aeronautical activity.
   (B)   Any aircraft operating under one or more of the categories below is to
be considered a commercial aircraft and must comply with the rules established
for a commercial activity:
      1.   Carrying passengers for hire.
      2.   Available for rental, hire or charter.
      3.   Student instruction and its kindred operations.
      4.   Any commercial purpose not above mentioned.
   (C)   No person shall have the Airport as a base or terminal for the
carrying on of commercial aviation, Fixed Base Operator, Aviation Operator, or
repair shop, scheduled or nonscheduled air carrier carrying passengers,
freight, express or mail, or for student flying, communications or any other
commercial flying except by persons under contract authorizing such operations
with the City.
   (D)   Tenants with current Airport leases who desire to utilize commercial
services from non-Airport based organizations may do so if prior approval has
been given by the Airport Manager after the Airport Manager has consulted with
the Director of Public Works.
   (E)   Lease agreements for aeronautical activities will not grant any power,
privilege or other right excluding or debarring another from enjoying or
exercising a like power, privilege or right.
   (F)   No person shall post, distribute, or display signs, advertisements,
circulars, printed or written matter at the Airport without the written
permission of the Airport Manager.
   (G)   The soliciting of fares, alms, or funds for any purpose on the Airport
without the permission of the Airport Manager is prohibited.
   (H)   All persons seeking a lease agreement with the City shall provide the
City evidence that the proposed lessee or any individual working full time with
authority to manage the business for the proposed lessee has adequate
experience in the field for which the lease is sought (as determined in advance
by the Airport Manager after the Airport Manager has consulted with the
Director of Public Works and the Airport Board) and shall be further required
to furnish evidence of financial ability in the field for which the lease is
sought, including, but not limited to, a financial statement prepared by a
certified public accountant and shall be further required to authorize the City
to obtain personal and business credit data from any source whatsoever and any
other information which the City may request. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020
Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-4: CONDUCT:
   (A)   Nuisance: No person shall be or become intoxicated or drunk, commit
any disorderly, obscene, or indecent act, or commit any act of nuisance on the
Airport.
   (B)   Gambling: No person shall engage in or conduct gambling in any form or
operate gambling devices anywhere on the Airport.
   (C)   Sanitation:
      1.   No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, or refuse or other
material on the Airport except in receptacles provided for such purposes.
      2.   No person shall use a comfort station other than in a clean and
sanitary manner.
      3.   No person shall expectorate or spit on the floor, walls or other
surfaces of any Airport building.
   (D)   Preservation Of Property:
      1.   No person shall destroy, injure, deface or disturb in any way any
building, sign, equipment marker or other structure, tree, flower, lawn or
other property on the Airport.
      2.   No person shall walk on the lawn and seeded areas on the Airport
other than those areas designated for picnic use.
      3.   No person shall alter, make additions to, or erect any building or
sign or make any excavations on the Airport without prior arrangements with the
Airport Manager.
      4.   No person shall willfully abandon any personal property on the
Airport.
      5.   No person shall interfere with, tamper with, or injure any part of
the Airport or any of the equipment thereof.
   (E)   Weapons: No persons except peace officers, duly authorized post office
employees, deputized Airport or air carrier employees, or members of the armed
forces of the United States on official duty, shall carry any weapons,
explosives, or inflammable material on the Airport.
   (F)   False Statements: No person shall knowingly or willfully make any
false statement or report to the Airport Manager or to any Airport employee
concerning the Airport or the operation of any aircraft to or from the Airport.
   (G)   Restricted Areas:
      1.   No person shall enter any restricted areas posted as being closed to
the public, except as may be permitted by these regulations.
      2.   No person shall enter the utilities or service rooms of the Airport
buildings except persons assigned to duty therein, authorized personnel, or
persons authorized by the Airport Manager.
      3.   No persons shall be allowed within the landing area, taxiways,
runways, ramps or aprons without consent of the Airport Manager except pilots,
crew members and passengers enplaning or deplaning aircraft under supervision
of the aircraft owner, operator or agent.
   (H)   Throwing Materials Prohibited: No person shall throw papers, cigars,
cigarettes, bottles or any other material from any building or structure on the
Airport.
   (I)   No Loitering Around Facilities: All shops, garages, equipment, and
facilities are expressly for the conduct of the owner's or lessee's business
and operation. No person other than employees of the owner or lessee shall make
use of these facilities or loiter around such premises without individual and
specific permission of the owner or lessee. This section shall apply to the
Airport premises as well as others.
   (J)   Assistance Called as Necessary: In the event that occasions arise that
are beyond the capability of the deputized Airport employees to cope with, in
any manner, the Dixon police department shall be called upon by said employees
for assistance and action as deemed necessary.
   (K)   Non-aviation Activities: Non-aviation related activities or events on
the Airport shall not be permitted without the prior permission of the Airport
Manager after consultation with the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-
1980; amd. Ord. 1110, 9-8-1981; 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-5: FLYING CLUBS:
   (A)   All flying clubs desiring to base their aircraft and operate on the
Airport must comply with the applicable provisions of these standards and
requirements. They shall be exempt from regular commercial activity
requirements upon satisfactory fulfillment of the conditions contained herein.
   (B)   Each club must be a not-for-profit corporation, limited liability
company or partnership. Each member must be a bona fide owner of the aircraft,
and a member or owner of the not-for-profit corporation, limited liability
company or partnership. The club may not derive greater revenue from the use of
its aircraft than the amount necessary for the actual use of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of its aircraft. The club will file and keep
current with the Airport Manager a complete list of the club's membership and
investment share held by each member. At any time, the Airport Manager has
reason to believe a club aircraft is being so operated that it falls under the
"commercial" classification, he shall so notify the club and if the club fails
to remedy these conditions, they shall be reclassified and must comply with the
requirements for any other commercial activity.
   (C)   The club's aircraft will not be used by other than bona fide members
for rental and by no one for commercial operations. Student instructions can be
given in club aircraft to club members provided such instruction is given by:
1) a lessee based on the Airport who provides flight training, or 2) by a club
member/instructor who must be properly certified by the Federal Aviation
Administration as a flight instructor to cover all types of training offered,
or 3) by an instructor who must be properly certified by the Federal Aviation
Administration as a flight instructor to cover all types of training offered.
Furthermore, prior approval must be given by the Airport Manager after
consultation with the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   In the event that the club fails to comply with these conditions, the
Airport Manager will notify the club in writing of such violations. If the club
fails to correct the violations within fifteen (15) days thereafter, the
Airport Manager may recommend to the City any action deemed advisable,
including cancellation of lease.
   (E)   The flying club, with its permit request, shall furnish the City a
copy of its charter and bylaws, articles of association, partnership agreement
or other documentation supporting its existence; a roster, or list of members,
including names of officers and directors, to be revised on a semiannual basis;
evidence of insurance in the form of a certificate of insurance in the
following amounts:
 
Public Liability $500,000.00 per person
Public Liability $1,000,000.00 per accident
Property Damage  $100,000.00
   Withhold harmless clauses in favor of the Airport, its officers and
employees (10 days' prior notice of cancellation shall be filed with the City);
number and type of aircraft; evidence that aircraft are properly certificated;
evidence that ownership of the aircraft is vested in the club; and operating
rules of the club. The books and other records of the club shall be available
for review at any reasonable time by Airport management or their authorized
agent.
   (F)   A flying club shall abide by and comply with all federal, state, and
local laws, ordinances, regulations and the rules and regulations of the City.
   (G)   A flying club which violates any of the foregoing, or permits one or
more members to do so, will be required to terminate all operations at all
Airports controlled by the City, at a public hearing held for the purpose of
considering such termination. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385,
11-20-2023)
3-20-6: LEASING INFORMATION:
   (A)   General:
      1.   Any person using the Airport as a base or terminal of operation and
offering any service or combination thereof on the Airport shall do so under
written lease agreement with the City. In accordance with stipulations
contained in the grants of federal funds from the Federal Aviation
Administration, all leases will contain the following clauses:
         (a)   The lessee agrees to furnish service on a fair, equal and non-
discriminatory basis to all users thereof, and to charge fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory prices for each unit or service; provided, that the lessee
may be allowed to make reasonable and non-discriminatory discounts, rebates or
other similar types of price reductions to volume purchasers. The lessee also
agrees to furnish good, prompt, and efficient services adequate to meet all the
demands for its services at the Airport.
         (b)   The lessee, for himself, his personal representatives,
successors in interest and assigns, as a part of the consideration hereof, does
hereby covenant and agree that: 1) no person on the grounds of race, color,
national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion or
ancestry shall be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or be
otherwise subjected to discrimination in the use of said facilities, 2) that in
construction of any improvements on, over or under such land and the furnishing
of services thereon, no person on the grounds of race, color, national origin,
gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion or ancestry shall be
excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise be
subjected to discrimination, 3) that the lessee shall use the premises in
compliance with all other requirements imposed by or pursuant to Title 49, Part
21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as said regulations may be amended from
time to time. In the event of a breach of any of the above covenants, the City
shall have the right to terminate the agreement and to reenter and repossess
said land and the facilities thereon and hold the same as if said agreement had
never been made or issued. The lessee further agrees to comply with such
enforcement procedures as the United States might demand that the lessor take
in order to comply with the lessor's assurances against non-discrimination.
         (c)   It is clearly understood by the lessee that no right or
privilege has been granted which would operate to prevent any person, firm or
corporation operating aircraft on the Airport from performing services on its
own aircraft (including, but not limited to, maintenance and repair) that it
may choose to perform.
         (d)   It is hereby specifically understood and agreed that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to grant or authorize the granting of an
exclusive right to provide aeronautical services to the public as prohibited by
Section 308(a) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, and the City
reserves the right to grant to others the privilege and right of conducting any
one or all activities of an aeronautical nature.
         (e)   The City reserves the right to further develop or improve the
landing area of the Airport as it sees fit, regardless of the desires or view
of the lessee, and without interference or hindrance.
         (f)   The City reserves the right, but shall not be obligated to
lessee, to maintain and keep in repair the landing area of the Airport and all
publicly owned facilities of the Airport, together with the right to direct and
control all activities of lessee in this regard.
         (g)   During the time of war or national emergency, the City shall
have the right to lease the landing area or any part thereof to the United
States government for military or naval use, and, if such lease is executed,
the provisions of this instrument insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the lease to the United States government, shall be suspended.
         (h)   The City reserves the right to take any action it considers
necessary to protect the aerial approaches of the Airport against obstruction,
together with the right to prevent lessee from erecting, or permitting to be
erected, any building or other structure on or adjacent to the Airport which,
in the opinion of the City, would limit the usefulness of the Airport or
constitute a hazard to aircraft.
         (i)   Lease agreements shall be subordinate to the provisions of any
existing or future agreement between the City and the United States, relative
to the operation or maintenance of the Airport, the execution of which has been
or may be required as a condition precedent to the expenditure of federal funds
for the development of the Airport.
      2.   All lessees shall furnish satisfactory evidence of the following
insurance coverage and conditions:
         (a)   Single limit airport premises liability of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury and property damage.
         (b)   Where applicable, hangar keeper's liability, products liability,
and aircraft liability in an appropriate amount.
         (c)   Workers' compensation insurance as required by the state of
Illinois.
         (d)   Policies shall also name the Airport, the City, and the Airport
Advisory Board as a named insured and shall contain a clause which shall
provide that in the event lessee's insurance coverage, or any part thereof,
should be canceled or materially changed, the Airport, the City, and the
Airport Board shall receive at least fifteen (15) days' prior written notice of
such change.
      3.   All lease agreements shall be a maximum duration of five (5) years
and may provide an annual revision clause regarding lessee's fees related to
specific operating privileges, except that longer periods may be authorized
when new construction is to be amortized.
      4.   The City will not accept or take action on a request to lease
building space or land area or in any way permit the installation of a
commercial activity until after the proposed lessee, in writing, submits a
proposal which sets forth the scope of operation that is proposed, including
the following:
         (a)   The amount of land the lessee desires to lease.
         (b)   The type of building the lessee desires to construct.
         (c)   The building space to be leased or constructed.
         (d)   The services to be offered.
         (e)   The hours of proposed operation.
         (f)   The number of persons that will be employed.
         (g)   The number of aircraft to be based at the Airport.
         (h)   Certificate of insurance or other satisfactory evidence
indicating the ability to obtain coverages as required.
         (i)   Evidence of his financial capability as set forth in subsection
3-20-3(H) of this chapter to perform and provide services and facilities for
the lease period. The City shall be the sole judge of what constitutes adequate
financial capacity.
      5.   All lessees shall conduct their business and operation in a manner
which shall not hinder, harass, or obstruct other lessees, the City, the
Airport Board or the Airport Manager. Any lessee or employee of the lessee
hindering, harassing or obstructing other lessees, the City, the Airport Board
or the Airport Manager from performing their duties shall be cause for
termination of the lease agreement.
      6.   Building space requirements may be provided in one building,
attached buildings or in separate buildings.
      7.   All lessee personnel shall hold Federal Aviation Administration
certificates and ratings shall maintain such certificates and ratings.
      8.   All lessees are responsible for strict compliance with all state and
federal laws pertaining to employees, including, but not limited to, social
security, unemployment compensation and wages and hours.
      9.   If the lessee shall violate any of the terms of this chapter, be the
subject of a petition of voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, become insolvent,
violate any of the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 or other
federal law relating to the operation on the premises, or violate any state
laws with regard to the operation of the Airport, the City may terminate any
contract or lease agreement with such lessee whether or not there is any such
provision in said contract or lease agreement.
      10.   Lessee shall pay accounts due all creditors within sixty (60) days
of incurring the same and failure to do so will be a substantial violation of
the lease agreement whether or not there is any such provision in said lease
agreement.
      11.   All lease agreements shall contain a clause prohibiting the lessee
from engaging in any other business which will interfere with the operations or
services to be provided under the lease; to require the lessee settle and pay
all accounts on termination of the lease or before removing any of lessee's
property from the premises; to cooperate with the City, the Airport Manager and
the Airport Board, when reasonable and proper, in the promotion and advancement
of the public use of the Airport; to prohibit any changes or alterations to be
made on demised premises without the prior written consent of the City; to
prohibit the demised premises to be used for any unlawful purpose or for any
purpose that will injure the reputation of the Airport Manager, Airport Board
or the City.
      12.   No person having a valid and current lease with the City shall
sublease or assign said lease without the prior written consent of the City.
      13.   All equipment and facilities maintained by any person/lessee on the
Airport premises must be at all times kept in a good, safe and workmanlike
manner, neat, orderly and in a good, safe condition.
      14.   The City, the Airport Manager and the Airport Board reserve the
right to enter upon any leased premises occupied by any person at a reasonable
time for the purpose of making inspections to determine that the conditions and
requirements of this chapter are being fully complied with.
      15.   All lessees contracting for any type of operating privileges shall
pay for such lessee's own electric and heating charges, and all other utility
charges which may be incurred.
      16.   Every lessee of the Airport shall be subject to rates, fees,
rentals and charges based upon comparable values and said rates, fees, rentals
and charges shall be similar to all other lessees making the same or similar
use of the Airport facilities. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord.
3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-7: AIRCRAFT SALES; BASIC LEASING REQUIREMENTS:
All lessees desiring to lease existing facilities to engage in aircraft sales
shall be required to provide the following:
   (A)   Buildings: Lease a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet for
office and public lounge facilities and public use telephone. Indoor restrooms
shall be provided unless reasonably available from existing facilities.
   (B)   Personnel: One person having a current commercial pilot certificate
with ratings appropriate for the types of aircraft to be demonstrated. Lease
shall provide for the office to be attended during the operating hours.
   (C)   Dealerships: New aircraft dealers shall hold an authorized factory or
sub-dealership. All aircraft dealers shall hold a dealership license or permit.
   (D)   Aircraft: A dealer of new aircraft shall have available or on call two
(2) current model demonstrators.
   (E)   Services: Provide for adequate servicing of aircraft and accessories
during warranty periods (new aircraft).
   (F)   Hours Of Operation: A minimum of eight (8) operating hours per day,
five (5) days a week. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. Ord. 1717, 2-1-1993; amd.
2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-8: AIRFRAME AND/OR POWER PLANT REPAIR FACILITIES; BASIC LEASING
REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Any lessee desiring to lease existing facilities to engage in airframe
and/or power plant repair service must provide as a minimum the following
Buildings: Lease a building sufficient to provide a minimum of six thousand
(6,000) square feet of shop space meeting local and state industrial code
requirements plus adequate office space. Indoor restrooms must be provided
unless reasonably available from existing facilities.
   (B)   Personnel: One person currently certified by federal aviation
administration with ratings appropriate for work being performed who may hold
an airframe and/or power plant ratings.
   (C)   Hours Of Operation: A minimum of eight (8) operating hours per day,
five (5) days a week.
   (D)   Equipment: Sufficient equipment, supplies and availability of parts to
perform maintenance in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations or
equivalent.
   (E)   Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-9: AIRCRAFT RENTAL; BASIC LEASING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Any lessee desiring to lease existing facilities to engage in the
rental of aircraft to the public must provide as a minimum the following
Buildings: Lease a building which will provide a minimum of one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of properly heated and lighted office space, including
adequate space for the public, including restrooms and public use telephone.
Indoor restrooms must be provided unless reasonably available from existing
facilities.
   (B)   Personnel: One person having a current commercial pilot certificate
with appropriate ratings including current instrument flight rating.
   (C)   Aircraft: At least one (1) airworthy aircraft owned or leased in
writing to the lessee.
   (D)   Hours of Operation: A minimum of eight (8) operating hours per day six
(6) days a week.
   (E)    Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. Ord. 1717, 2-1-1993; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-10: FLIGHT TRAINING; BASIC LEASING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Any lessee desiring to lease existing facilities to engage in pilot
instruction shall provide as a minimum the following Buildings: Lease a
building having a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet of properly
lighted and heated floor space to provide a classroom, briefing room, pilot's'
lounge, office space and public use telephone. Indoor restrooms must be
provided unless reasonably available from existing facilities.
   (B)   Personnel: One full-time employee properly certificated by the Federal
Aviation Administration as flight instructor to cover all types of training
offered.
   (C)   Aircraft: The lessee shall own or have leased to him in writing at
least one (1) certified aircraft equipped for flight instruction.
   (D)   Hours of Operation: A minimum of eight (8) operating hours per day,
six (6) days per week.
   (E)    Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. Ord. 1717, 2-1-1993; 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-11: RADIO, INSTRUMENT OR PROPELLER REPAIR SERVICE; BASIC LEASING
REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Lessees desiring to lease existing facilities to provide a radio,
instrument or propeller repair service must hold a federal aviation
administration repair station certificate and ratings for same and provide as a
minimum the following Buildings: Lease a building providing a minimum of two
thousand (2,000) square feet of properly lighted and heated space to house
office and minimum shop and hangar space as required for Federal Aviation
Administration repair shop certification.
   (B)    Personnel: One Federal Aviation Administration certificated repairman
qualified in accordance with the terms of the repair station certificate.
   (C)   Hours of Operation: A minimum of eight (8) operating hours per day
five (5) days per week.
   (D)   Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-12: AIR TAXI SERVICE; BASIC LEASING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Lessees desiring to lease existing facilities to engage in air taxi
service must hold a Federal Aviation Administration air carrier certificate and
an Illinois aeronautics board certificate with ratings appropriate to the
services to be offered and they shall provide as a minimum the following
Buildings: Lease a building providing a minimum of one hundred fifty (150)
square feet properly heated and lighted space for office and customer lounge,
public use telephone and restrooms.
   (B)   Personnel: One pilot who is appropriately certificated and rated to
conduct air carrier operation under Part 135 of the Federal Aviation
Regulations and the Illinois Air Carrier Act.
   (C)   Aircraft: At least one (1) aircraft meeting all the requirements of
the air carrier certificate held.
      Note: Aircraft shall be owned or leased by agreement, in writing, and
meet all the relevant requirements of Part 135 of the Federal Aviation
Regulations and the requirements of the Illinois aeronautics board.
   (D)   Hours of Operation: The minimum hours of operation shall be eight (8)
hours per day, six (6) days a week.
   (E)    Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. Ord. 1717, 2-1-1993; 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-13: MULTIPLE SERVICES; BASIC LEASING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Lessees desiring to engage in two (2) or more commercial aeronautical
activities in existing facilities must provide as a minimum the following
Buildings: Lease a building containing a minimum of one hundred fifty (150)
square feet to provide properly lighted and heated space for office, public
lounge, pilot briefing room and restrooms. Repair stations must provide minimum
shop and hangar space as required by federal aviation administration repair
shop certification.
   (B)   Personnel: Multiple responsibilities may be assigned to personnel to
meet personnel requirements for all activities.
   (C)   Aircraft: All requirements for aircraft for the specific activities to
be engaged in must be provided; however, multiple uses can be made of all
aircraft. In order to meet these requirements, however, a minimum of one (1)
must be owned or under the direct control of the lessee and based on the
lessee's leasehold.
   (D)   Equipment: All equipment specifically required for each activity must
be provided.
   (E)   Services: All services specifically required for each activity must be
provided during the hours of operation.
   (F)   Hours of Operation: The lessee will adhere to the operating schedule
as required for each activity.
   (G)   Multiple Operations: Multiple operations shall require the manning of
the office on a full-time basis for the hours specified for each activity.
   (H)   Any deviation of the above-mentioned minimum requirements must be
approved in advance in writing by the Airport Manager after consultation with
the Director of Public Works and Airport Advisory Board. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980;
amd. Ord. 1717, 2-1-1993; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-14: NEW FACILITIES:
   Lessees desiring to engage in any one or more of the commercial aeronautical
activities listed in sections
3-20-7 through
3-20-13 of this chapter and in which a new building must be constructed, in
addition to the requirements stated in each section, must also provide as a
minimum the following Land: The leasehold for the desired commercial activity
shall contain a minimum of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of land and
provide space for specific use requirements established for the service to be
offered in the discretion of the City. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385,
11-20-2023)
3-20-15: HANGAR RENTALS:
All lessees contracting for privileges involving aircraft ownership and hangar
rental shall pay the Airport, according to the fee schedule established by the
City. Said lease amount may be increased by the City by passage of a resolution
increasing the monthly rental. In addition, persons will be required to execute
a lease agreement with the City. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord.
3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-16: AIRCRAFT FUEL AND LUBRICANT DISPENSING:
   (A)   Public Dispensing: All aircraft fuel and lubricants sold retail at the
Airport will be dispensed under specific agreement with the City. The
agreement, lease or contract will specify basic land, building and personnel
requirements, hours of operation, equipment to be used, services to be provided
and markup authorized. Servicing, dispensing or sale of aircraft fuels and
lubricants without prior written approval of the City is prohibited. Failure to
obtain this written approval prior to any operation is a basis for cancellation
of any existing lease agreements. Written approval will not be unreasonably
withheld.
   (B)   Private Dispensing Fixed Base Operators, Aviation Operators and other
lessees owning and operating aircraft based at the Airport, whose requirements
for aviation fuel makes operation of the specified fueling equipment desirable,
may be given permission by the City to service their leased or owned aircraft
with aviation fuel and lubricants subject to the safety standards and
conditions contained herein.
      1.   Permission to privately dispense fuel and lubricants must be
authorized in a specific agreement which will contain basic land, building,
personnel, equipment, and meter requirements for the type of operation being
planned. Failure to obtain this written permission in advance of any operations
is basis for cancellation of any existing lease agreement. All aviation fuel
will be assessed a flowage fee payable monthly on all fuels dispensed in that
month. Flowage fees will be paid no later than one week after the close of the
month. Flowage fee will be assessed at two cents ($0.02) per gallon. This fee
may be increased by the City at any time by thirty (30) days advanced written
notice.
      2.   Fueling will be done only from fueling dispensers, fixed or mobile,
especially constructed for dispensing aviation fuel, and having all safety
devices specified by the rules and regulations of the Illinois department of
transportation, division of aeronautics, the National Board of Fire
Underwriters and Illinois state fire marshal. Under no circumstances will
fueling of aircraft from drums be permitted.
      3.   In addition to the general insurance requirements of the tenant's'
lease, special coverages of products and motor vehicle liability and property
damage will be required.
      4.   Dispensing vehicles and bulk lubricants will be stored in or upon
approved facilities under lease to the tenant. Storage within aircraft hangars
is prohibited. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-17: LIABILITY:
The City, the Airport Manager, the Airport Board, the Airport, and all of their
or its officers, employees and agents, assume no responsibility for loss,
injury or damage to persons or property by reason of fire, theft, vandalism,
wind, flood, earthquake, collision, strikes, or acts of God or of the public
enemy, nor does they assume any liability for injury or death to persons while
on the Airport or while using the facilities of same, or for property damage.
(Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-18: INDEMNITY:
The privilege of using the Airport and its facilities shall be upon the
condition that any person using same shall assume the full responsibility and
risk for the use thereof and shall release , indemnify and hold harmless the
City, the Airport Manager, the Airport Board, the Airport, and all of their or
its officers, employees and agents, from any and all liability or loss
resulting from such use. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-
20-2023)
3-20-19: REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
The city council reserves the right to at any time, without notice, revise,
modify, change or waive any or all of the foregoing provisions. (Ord. 1052, 9-
15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-20-20: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The Airport Manager, or other employees of the City, is empowered with
the authority to require compliance with these rules and regulations. The Lee
County Sheriff's department, the Illinois state police, the City police and
other appropriate state and federal investigative and enforcement bodies are
authorized and requested to proceed upon the Airport as necessary to enforce
this chapter and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations. No authority
is either hereby expressed, implied, however, that would permit any individual
other than the city council to change, amend or mitigate this chapter.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). In the case of continuing
violations of this chapter, each calendar day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1052, 9-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord.
3385, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 21
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-21-1: Foreword
3-21-2: Definitions
3-21-3: General Information
3-21-4: Aircraft Operations
3-21-5: Motor Vehicles
3-21-6: Fire Prevention Requirements
3-21-7: Aircraft Fuel And Lubricant Dispensing
3-21-8: Flying Clubs
3-21-9: Lease Agreement Requirements
3-21-10: Usage Of Airport Property
3-21-11: Enforcement
3-21-12: Miscellaneous
3-21-1: FOREWORD:
Dixon Municipal Airport, Charles R. Walgreen Field (Dixon Airport) is owned and
operated by the City of Dixon.
These rules and regulations have been established in the public interest in
order to permit the safe and efficient operation of the airport on fair and
reasonable terms in accordance with the provisions of section 308 of the
federal aviation act, title VI of the civil rights act of 1964, and part 21 of
the regulations of the office of the secretary of transportation and federal
aviation regulations (FAR).
The rules and regulations apply to any "person," as defined, who enters the
airport premises and/or is engaged in any activity at the airport. (Ord. 1062,
12-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
                                  Any contrivance now known or hereafter
AIRCRAFT:                         invented, used or designed for navigation of
                                  or flight in the air, for the purpose of
                                  transporting persons or property or both.
                                  Such person as may be designated from time
                                  to time by the Director of Public Works
AIRPORT MANAGER:                  having immediate charge and responsibility
                                  for the supervision of the daily operations
                                  and activities of the airport.
                                  The members of the Dixon airport board
AIRPORT BOARD:                    established and appointed pursuant to Title
                                  2, Chapter 2 of this code. The Airport Board
                                  shall be an advisory board.
                                  Any person or organization engaged in
AVIATION OPERATOR:                business of an aviation nature under
                                  authority of a lease or permit from the
                                  City.
CITY:                             City of Dixon, Illinois.
                                  Those aviation operators who furnish and
                                  engage in one or more of the following
                                  activities: sale of aviation fuel and
FIXED BASE OPERATOR:              lubricants; line service; sale of aircraft
                                  parts and supplies; maintenance and repair
                                  of airframes and engines; aircraft charter,
                                  taxi and rental; flight training; radio; or
                                  instrument or propeller repair service.
OPERATION OF AIRCRAFT OR AIRCRAFT Any use or movement of aircraft.
OPERATION:
OWNER AND OPERATOR OF AIRPORT:    The City of Dixon, Illinois.
                                  Any individual, firm, partnership,
                                  corporation, company, limited liability
                                  company, association, society, group or any
PERSON:                           duly authorized representative of any of the
                                  foregoing, singular and plural.  (Ord. 1062,
                                  12-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-
                                  20-2023)
 
3-21-3: GENERAL INFORMATION:
Dixon Airport  1650 Franklin Grove Road, Dixon, Illinois 61021
Location       Walnut Quadrangle N. Lat. 41°'50"1-" - W. Long. 89°'27"00" 81/2 mi. from Polo
               VOR on the 153° Radial
Elevation      786 MSL
Unicom         Frequency 123.05 MHz
Fuel           Gasoline, 100LL
Runways        Runway 8 - 26: 3,897' x 75' bituminous
               Runway 12 - 30: 2,803' x 75' bituminous
Landing        Left - 1,786 MSL
pattern
Landing fees   None
Ground         Taxicabs and auto rentals (please call in on Unicom)
transportation
Repairs        Major-minor (airframe, engine)
Lights         Runways; beacons (hours of darkness)
Weather
information    AWOS 815-288-2039, Frequency 118.575
flight service
Storage        T-hangars and tiedowns
Services       Federal aviation administration and GI bill approved flight school, ground
               school, air taxi and maintenance shop
Hours attended 8:00 A.M. to 3:00P.M. (other hours on request)
               Quality Inn & Suites, Dixon, Illinois 1 mile
Lodging        Super 8 by Wyndham, Dixon, Illinois 1 mile
               Magnuson Hotel, Dixon, Illinois 2.5 miles
 
(Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 1735, 6-7-1993; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-4: AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS:
   (A)   Operations:
      1.   The airport shall be open for public use twenty-four (24) hours a
day, seven (7) days per week, subject to such restrictions due to inclement
weather, the conditions of the landing area and like causes as may be
reasonably determined by the Airport Manager to be in the interest of public
safety. The airport shall be open for public use at night, provided, however,
that night landing systems will be operated in the manner prescribed by the
federal aviation administration. The airport offices and line service will be
attended during the hours of 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM only.
      2.   No person shall operate any aircraft at this airport unless the
aircraft and operator are properly certified by the federal aviation
administration if so required by the federal aviation administration.
      3.   No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft or put in
motion the engine of such aircraft or use any aircraft, aircraft parts,
instrument, or tools, without prior permission of the owner or by prior written
direction of the Airport Manager.
      4.   The owners of all aircraft based on the airport shall register their
aircraft with the Airport Manager prior to commencing operations and shall
inform the Airport Manager of any changes in the ownership within thirty (30)
days thereof.
      5.   No aircraft shall be operated on the surface of a landing area,
ramp, or storage parking area, while the pilot or any person aboard controlling
any part of the operation is under the influence of liquor or any narcotic or
drug. No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic or drugs
shall approach closer than fifty feet (50') to any aircraft.
      6.   No aircraft shall be tested or used for any purpose in any area
where the noise, propeller or jet stream will be a nuisance to others.
      7.   No motorless aircraft may land or take off at the airport without
prior written consent from the Airport Manager; provided, however, that there
may be adopted rules and regulations governing takeoff and landing of motorless
aircraft and prescribing the conditions under which such operations are to be
performed and consent therefor given by the Airport Manager.
      8.   No experimental groups or flight demonstrations will be conducted at
the airport without prior written approval of the Airport Manager. Such
approval shall not be granted unless and until the applicant obtains and
provides proper insurance coverage to the satisfaction of the Airport Manager.
      9.   Helicopters may land on the ramp parking area. Autogiros shall land
and takeoff on the active runway and taxi to the parking area as do fixed wing
aircraft.
      10.   No person shall navigate any aircraft, land aircraft upon, fly
aircraft from or conduct any aircraft operations or commercial activity on or
from the airport, otherwise than in conformity with the then current rules and
regulations of the federal aviation administration and of the civil aeronautics
board, Illinois division of aeronautics, ordinances of the City and the rules
and regulations of this chapter.
      11.   The Airport Manager may remove any wrecked or damaged aircraft from
the runway and render a bill for such services to the aircraft owner with
payment due within thirty (30) days from the date of invoice.
      12.   Disabled or obviously unairworthy aircraft and parts thereof will
be parked only on areas of the airport removed from public view.
      13.   All persons involved in any personal, aircraft or airport
automotive accident on the premises of the airport shall make a report in
writing to the Airport Manager's office as soon as possible, but in any case,
within forty eight (48) hours of said accident.
      14.   These rules are supplemental, subordinate, and complementary to
those of the City, the federal aviation administration and the Illinois
Department of Transportation, Division of Aeronautics.
   (B)   Pattern:
      1.   Except as otherwise hereinafter expressly provided, all aircraft
before landing and after taking off shall be flown in accordance with the
traffic pattern as outlined in federal aviation regulation's Part 91, general
operating and flight rules, and part 93, specific air traffic rules and airport
traffic patterns and any amendments promulgated from time to time by the
federal aviation administration.
      2.   Aircraft awaiting takeoff shall park at least fifty feet (50') clear
of the runway in use and in a position so as to have a direct view of aircraft
approaching for a landing.
      3.   When calm wind conditions exist, runway 8 normally shall be the
active runway. However, if other aircraft are using a different runway, abide
by existing traffic.
      4.   All traffic patterns at the airport are left-hand traffic.
      5.   All aircraft taking off shall proceed straight ahead in an altitude
of four hundred feet (400') above the surface and execute a forty-five degree
(45°) left turn after passing the airport boundary. Any nonstandard departures
are to be reported on Unicom frequency.
      6.   Aircraft intending to remain in the traffic pattern shall climb
straight ahead four hundred feet (400') AGL and thereafter climb and maintain
eight hundred to one thousand feet (800' to 1,000') AGL above the surface after
the first ninety degree (90°) turn.
      7.    When the ceiling is insufficient to maintain proper vertical
separation from the clouds at the prescribed pattern altitude, the pattern
altitude will be reduced as necessary to provide the proper vertical clearance.
      8.    The traffic pattern will at no time be lowered below an altitude of
five hundred feet (500') above the surface.
      9.   Aircraft entering the traffic pattern shall exercise extreme caution
and courtesy so as not to cause aircraft in the pattern to deviate from their
course in order to provide adequate separation.
   (C)   Takeoffs And Landing:
      1.   All cockpit and engine checks shall be made on the run-up line prior
to taxiing into position for the takeoff.
      2.   Aircraft landing at the airport shall make the landing runway
available to others by leaving the runway as promptly as possible.
      3.   Except in an emergency, all landings and takeoffs shall be made only
on runways.
      4.   When landings or takeoffs are made in a direction other than as
prescribed in the above rule, the pilot is solely responsible for determining
that the operation can be completed with safety and without interference or
disruption of other traffic in the area.
   (D)   Taxiing:
      1.   Pilots shall taxi their aircraft slowly on the taxiways and exercise
and display extreme caution at all times. Taxi speed shall not exceed twenty-
five (25) miles per hour.
      2.   Under no circumstances shall any aircraft be taxied into or out of
any hangar. No taxiing shall be done except on areas designated for taxiing.
      3.   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained
that there will be no danger of collision with any person or object in the
immediate area.
   (E)   Parking Of Aircraft:
      1.    Privately owned aircraft shall be parked only in tie-down areas or
in hangars.
      2.   Flying school and rental aircraft shall be parked only in the flight
lines assigned to them by the Airport Manager.
      3.   Transient aircraft shall be parked only on the transient parking
area or in hangars assigned them by the Airport Manager or a fixed base
operator.
      4.   At the direction of the Airport Manager, the operator, owner or
pilot of any aircraft on the airport shall move the aircraft, and upon failure
to do so, the aircraft may be towed at the operator's expense and without
liability for any damage that may result from such moving.
   (F)   Starting Of Engines:
      1.   No person shall attempt starting or cranking of an airplane engine
except when a competent operator is at the controls of said airplane engine.
      2.   Aircraft shall be started and warmed up only in places designated
for such purpose by the Airport Manager.
      3.   No aircraft shall be run up unless the aircraft is in such a
position that the propeller blast will clear all buildings and all aircraft
maneuvering areas and all groups of people in observation areas.
   (G)   Repairing Of Aircraft: No person shall repair an aircraft, aircraft
engine, propeller, or apparatus in any area of the airport other than those
specifically designated for such purpose by contract or agreement or by
permission of the Airport Manager. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 1168, 3-7-
1983; 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-5: MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Licensing And Registration:
      1.   No person shall operate motorized equipment of any kind on the
airport premises without a valid state of Illinois operator's license.
      2   No person shall operate any motor vehicle in the aircraft ramp area
or landing and taxiing area without first having registered the same with the
Airport Manager and prior obtaining permission for the operation of such
equipment.
      3.   No person shall park automotive equipment in any aircraft tiedown
area. Prior permission must be obtained from the Airport Manager for driving to
said areas for the loading or unloading of luggage, equipment, or cargo.
   (B)   Rules Of Operation:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle of any description in a
reckless or negligent manner on airport property.
      2.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of ten
(10) miles per hour on the ramp, apron, hangar, aircraft parking and automobile
parking areas of the airport.
      3.   All persons shall give proper signals while operating a motor
vehicle on airport property.
      4.   All persons shall obey the directions posted on traffic signs on
airport property.
      5.    No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs shall operate a motor vehicle or aircraft on airport property.
      6.   No person shall operate an overloaded motor vehicle on airport
property.
      7.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on airport property when
carrying more passengers than that for which the vehicle was designed.
      8.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on airport property while
any occupant thereof is riding on the running board, riding outside the body of
the vehicle or while in a standing position, or with arms or legs protruding
outside the body of the vehicle.
      9.   No vehicle which is constructed, equipped, or loaded in a manner so
as to endanger persons or property shall be operated on airport property.
      10.   Vehicular traffic on airport property shall yield the right of way
to pedestrians and aircraft at all times and in all areas.
      11.   Pedestrians shall yield the right of way to aircraft on airport
property.
      12.   Pedestrians and all vehicles shall pass to the rear of taxiing
aircraft and aircraft on which the propeller is turning.
      13.   All authorized vehicles when parking adjacent to a runway shall
park parallel to the runway and at a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') to the outside of the runway lights.
      14.   All vehicles authorized to operate in the airport landing and taxi
area during the hours between sunset and sunrise shall be equipped with fully
operating head and taillights visible for a distance of at least five hundred
feet (500').
      15.   The existence of emergency conditions at the airport shall not
mitigate or cancel any existing regulations.
      16.   All fire gates and entrances shall be kept clear of motor vehicles
at all times.
   (C)    Repair of Motor Vehicles and Aircraft: In order to protect the public
areas of the airport, and prevent encroachment upon the rights of other users,
no owner or other person shall clean or make repairs to motor vehicles or
aircraft anywhere on the airport other than in areas, including leased
facilities, designated for those purposes. No person shall move, interfere, or
tamper with any motor vehicle or aircraft, or put in motion the engine, or
take, or use any motor vehicle part, or aircraft part, instrument, or tool
thereof, without the prior permission of the owner or satisfactory evidence of
the right to do so duly presented to the Airport Manager.
   (D)   Parking:
      1.   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any area other than those
specifically provided for parking.
      2.   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any manner in the parking
areas other than in the position designated by marked lines or by posted signs.
      3.   No tenant of a T-hangar shall park his motor vehicle in any area
other than the designated parking area or inside their respective T-hangars.
      4.   The Airport Manager is authorized to tow or otherwise move motor
vehicles which are parked in violation of these regulations on airport property
and such movement of a vehicle shall be done at the operator's expense and
without liability for damage attaching to the Airport Manager, the Airport
Advisory Board, or the City.
   (E)   Ground Transportation: No motor vehicle or aircraft carrier for hire
shall load or unload passengers at the airport at any place other than that
designated by the Airport Manager, nor shall such conveyance operate on airport
property without a contract with the City or without express prior approval of
the Airport Manager. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-
2023)
3-21-6: FIRE PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Smoking or lighting of open flames is prohibited in the following
locations:
      1.   Places with signs posted prohibiting smoking.
      2.   On ramps or aprons where aircraft are parked.
      3.   Within fifty feet (50') of hangars, fuel trucks or fuel loading
stations.
   (B)   No person shall start an open fire on airport property for any reason
whatsoever, except the airport maintenance crew in performance of their duties.
   (C)   Except for oil containers, not more than one aggregate gallon of
flammable liquids or gases including, but not limited to, gasoline, dope,
paint, thinner or solvent (other than fuel in aircraft fuel tanks), shall be
stored in any facility housing aircraft, except as is necessary for use inside
repair shops by approved fixed base operators in charge of such repair shops. A
separate building for such storage may be required.
   (D)   Except for oil in sealed containers or in drums equipped with hand
operating dispensing pumps, no inflammable liquids or gases shall be stored in
any maintenance hangar in quantities aggregating more than thirty-five (35)
gallons and said storage shall be in metal containers.
   (E)   No person shall use a volatile inflammable for cleaning purposes
inside any hangar or building, without the prior written approval of the
Airport Manager.
   (F)   No person shall operate any aircraft engine, electrical equipment,
radio equipment or any machinery or equipment producing unshielded sparks in
any hangar.
   (G)   Spray painting will be permitted in maintenance hangars, but only in
specifically enclosed areas isolated from all sources of open flame or sparks,
and fully equipped with an exhaust ventilating system.
   (H)   Aircraft or aircraft engines shall not be cleaned or degreased unless
such operations are done in an externally ventilated maintenance area properly
equipped to handle such work or other suitable place designated for such
purpose by the Airport Manager.
   (I)   Fire extinguishers shall be maintained in operating condition at all
times by fixed base operators operating maintenance shops in accordance with
the requirements and rules of the Illinois inspection and rating bureau, the
City and the Airport Manager. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-
2023)
3-21-7: AIRCRAFT FUEL AND LUBRICANT DISPENSING:
   (A)   Rules And Regulations: The rules and regulations contained in this
section are supplementary to the requirements in chapter 20 of this title.
   (B)   Handling Of Aviation Fuel:
      1.   Fueling Prohibited While Aircraft Running: Aircraft fueling is
prohibited while an engine of the aircraft being refueled is running or is
being heated.
      2.   Grounding of Electrical Potential: During all fuel handling
operation in connection with any aircraft at the airport, the aircraft and the
fuel dispensing or draining equipment shall be grounded by wire to prevent the
possibility of static ignition of volatile liquids.
      3.   Distance from Hangar or Buildings: Aircraft fuel handling at the
airport shall be conducted at least fifty feet (50') from any hangar or other
buildings except where the location of underground fuel tanks required such
fuel handling closer to existing buildings or hangars, except when fueling
aircraft in T-hangars.
      4.   Fire Extinguishers Available: During fuel handling operations in
connection with any aircraft at least two (2) fully charged fifteen (15) pound
CO2 or other equivalent type fire extinguishers approved by the National Board
of Fire Underwriters shall be kept immediately available.
      5.   Operating Radio, Radar or Electrical Equipment Prohibited: During
fueling operations in connection with any aircraft, no person shall operate any
radio transmitter or receiver or any electrical switches or any radar equipment
in such aircraft or do any act or use any material which is likely to cause a
spark within fifty feet (50') of such aircraft. No airborne radar equipment
shall be operated, or ground tested wherein the directional high intensity beam
is within one hundred feet (100') of another aircraft, an aircraft refueling
operation, an aircraft refueling truck or flammable liquid storage facility.
      6.   Prevent Fuel Overflow: Persons engaged in aircraft fuel handling
shall exercise care to prevent overflow of the fuel.
      7.   Starting Engine Where Fuel on Ground Prohibited: No person shall
start the engine or engines of any aircraft when there is gasoline or any type
of fuel on the ground within twenty-five feet (25') of the engine to be
started.
      8.   Storage and Parking of Refueling Units: Refueling units, when not in
use, shall be stored or parked only in those locations designated or approved
by the Airport Manager.
      9.   Motorized Equipment: During fueling or defueling operations all
motorized equipment used for servicing aircraft shall be parked in such a way
that it may be readily driven or towed away from the place in the event of an
emergency.
      10.   Fueling Prohibited While Aircraft Occupied: No occupants are
permitted in aircraft during fueling operations. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd.
Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-8: FLYING CLUBS:
Flying clubs and their members shall be governed by these rules and regulations
and by chapter 20 of this title. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-
2023)
3-21-9: LEASE AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Any person offering any service or combination thereof to the public on the
airport shall do so only under written agreement with the City. Requirements
for leases are contained in and governed by chapter 20 of this title. (Ord.
1062, 12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-10: USAGE OF AIRPORT PROPERTY:
   (A)   Scope: All persons while on or occupying any area of the airport shall
be governed by these rules and regulations and this code, and such persons
shall comply with any orders and instructions of the Airport Manager relevant
to the use and occupancy of the airport property and airport facilities.
   (B)   Conduct:
      1.   No person shall, at or upon the airport, do or omit to do any act if
the doing or omission thereof endangers or is likely to endanger person or
property.
      2.   No person shall loiter in or about any restroom facility, quarter,
stairway, lobby, waiting room or other appurtenances of the airport.
      3.   No person shall commit any disorderly, obscene, indecent, or
unlawful act, commit a nuisance or abandon any personal property on the
airport.
      4.   No person, except authorized by local, state, or federal law, shall
carry any firearms and explosives on the airport property without prior written
permission of the Airport Manager after consultation with the Director of
Public Works.
      5.   No person shall destroy, injure, deface or disturb, tamper with or
attempt to destroy, injure, deface or disturb any building, sign, equipment,
fixture, marker or any other structure or property on the airport.
   (C)   Soliciting, Advertising Sales: No person, unless duly authorized by
the City, shall, in or upon any area, lobby, sidewalk, stairway or any other
appurtenance of the airport:
      1.   Sell, offer for sale any article of merchandise;
      2.   Carry on any commercial activity;
      3.   Solicit any business or trade;
      4.   Solicit alms or funds for any purpose;
      5.   Post, distribute or display signs, advertisements, circulars,
printed or written matter.
   (D)   Sanitation: No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, refuse, or
other material on airport property except in the receptacles provided for that
purpose. No person shall eat food or drink beverages in the administration or
canteen area, other than the soft drinks and food normally sold in said
building.
   (E)   Use of Roads, Walks and Parking Lots:
      1.   No person shall travel on the airport other than on the roads,
walks, parking lots or places provided for the particular class of traffic.
      2.   No person shall occupy the roads, walks, or parking lots in such a
manner as to hinder or obstruct their proper use.
      3.   All areas of the airport, except those areas open to the public, are
restricted and no person shall enter any private offices, maintenance areas,
landing areas, ramp and apron areas or any other restricted area on the airport
posted as being closed to the public, except:
         (a)   Persons assigned to duty or having official business therein;
         (b)   Authorized representatives of the Airport Advisory Board;
         (c)   Authorized representatives of the United States government;
         (d)   Persons having prior permission of the Airport Manager;
         (e)   Authorized representatives of the City;
         (f)   Passengers entering upon the ramp and apron areas for purpose of
impartation or departation.
   (F)   Use Of Hangar Space: The performance of any aircraft maintenance,
washing, lubricating, draining of oil or painting, by any person other than the
aircraft owner or the aircraft owner's authorized agent, in any hangar space
leased for storage, is prohibited except upon the prior written approval of the
Airport Manager.
   (G)   Animals: No owner or keeper shall allow dogs or other animals on the
airport premises at any time unless the dog or other animal is at all times
secured to the owner or keeper by a handheld leash or properly confined.
Notwithstanding the above, no dog or other animal shall be allowed in the lobby
of the airport terminal building or any other airport premises if the animal
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person properly on the airport premises.
   (H)   Lost Articles: All lost articles shall be turned in to the Airport
Manager's office by the finders. Any such articles not claimed in sixty (60)
days will be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois
statutes on unclaimed property.
   (I)   Loitering And Refusal To Comply: No person shall loiter or loaf on any
part of the airport or in any building on the airport; nor shall any person
come upon or use the airport, except while traveling through as a passenger on
a bus or taxicab or while enplaning or deplaning as a passenger on an aircraft
operating on the airport, after such person has been denied the use of the
airport by the Airport Manager. Any person or persons who shall refuse to
comply with these applicable rules and regulations, after proper request to do
so by the Airport Manager or other authorized representative, shall be
requested to leave the airport, and in the event of his or their failure to
comply with a proper request to abide by the rules and regulations of the
airport, shall be considered, recorded and handled as a trespasser. (Ord. 1062,
12-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The laws of the state of Illinois pertaining to the regulation of
motor vehicles shall, where applicable, be enforced in the manner provided by
law.
   (B)   All rules and regulations herein contained shall be enforced by the
Airport Manager or his or her representative.
   (C)   The Airport Manager shall, at his or her discretion, have the
authority to remove from the airport and to deny any person reentry thereon who
violates any provisions of these rules and regulations.
   (D)   In the event any situation arises that is beyond the official
responsibility of the Airport Manager, the Airport Manager shall have the right
and duty to call upon necessary City, county and state agencies. (Ord. 1062,
12-15-1980; amd. Ord. 3385, 11-20-2023)
3-21-12: MISCELLANEOUS:
   (A)   Liability: The City, the Airport Board, the Airport Manager and the
airport and all of their or its officers, employees and agents assume no
responsibility for loss, injury, death or damage to persons or property by
reason of fire, theft, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake, collision, strikes
or acts of God or of the public enemy, nor does it assume any liability for
injury or death to persons while on the airport or while using the facilities
of same, or for property damage.
   (B)   Indemnity: The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall
be upon the condition that any person using same shall assume the full
responsibility and risk for the use thereof and shall release and hold harmless
and indemnify the City, the Airport Manager, the Airport Board, the airport and
all of their or its officers, employees and agents from any and all liability
or loss resulting from such use.
   (C)   Revisions And Amendments: The City reserves the right, to at any time
without notice, revise, modify, change, or waive any or all of the foregoing
rules and regulations. (Ord. 1062, 12-15-1980; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3385, 11-
20-2023)
CHAPTER 22
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 23
HERITAGE CROSSING
SECTION:
3-23-1: Purpose
3-23-2: Definitions
3-23-3: Prohibited Conduct
3-23-4: Ejections And Exclusions
3-23-5: Penalties
3-23-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to preserve Heritage Crossing for the enjoyment,
safety, comfort and convenience of the public by prohibiting conduct that
unreasonably interferes with the administration and lawful use of Heritage
Crossing, by preventing nuisances, and by protecting the health, welfare and
safety of the public using Heritage Crossing. (Ord. 3169, 10-7-2019)
3-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
 
                    Any of (a) any law enforcement officer employed by the
AUTHORIZED OFFICER: city, (b) the city manager, or (c) the assistant city
                    manager.
                    An order given by an authorized officer directing a person
EJECTION:           to immediately leave Heritage Crossing and not to return
                    for the remainder of the day.
                    An order given by an authorized officer prohibiting a
EXCLUSION:          person from entering or remaining at Heritage Crossing for
                    a specified length of time.
                    The city riverfront area located between the Abraham
                    Lincoln Bridge (also known as the Galena Avenue Bridge) and
                    the Veterans Memorial Bridge (also known as the Peoria
HERITAGE CROSSING:  Avenue Bridge), including but not limited to, all
                    sidewalks, the James G. Burke Pavilion, public restrooms,
                    boat docks, fountain, amphitheater seating, landscaping,
                    chairs, benches, tables and other amenities commonly known
                    as Heritage Crossing.
                    Any length of time Heritage Crossing is designated for
HOURS OF CLOSURE:   closure to the public in connection with an activity
                    programmed or scheduled by the city or by the Dixon Chamber
                    of Commerce and Main Street.
                    Behavior, conduct or activity at Heritage Crossing
PROHIBITED CONDUCT: described as prohibited conduct in section
                    3-23-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 3169, 10-7-2019)
 
3-23-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
Prohibited conduct at Heritage Crossing includes behavior, conduct or activity
at Heritage Crossing that violates any federal, state or local law, ordinance
rule or regulations, and including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   No person shall be in Heritage Crossing during hours of closure. This
subsection (A) shall not apply to pedestrians crossing Heritage Crossing
between two adjacent sidewalks or persons attending, participating in, going to
or coming from an activity programmed or scheduled by the city or by the Dixon
Chamber of Commerce and Main Street.
   (B)   No person shall use obscene or abusive language or gestures, or
threaten violence or injury to the person or property of others, in a manner
intended and likely to incite or produce an immediate breach of the peace or
violent or disorderly response.
   (C)   No person shall make or cause to be made any excessively or unusually
loud noise in violation of section
4-7-7 of this code. No person shall play or operate any sound amplification
device including radios, television sets, turn tables, CD players, cell phones,
public address systems, amplified musical instruments, portable speakers or
generators or any other loud noise generating device. This section shall not
apply to the playing of any music instrument, public speaking, or the
amplification thereof, in conjunction with an activity programmed or scheduled
by the city or by the Dixon Chamber of Commerce and Main Street.
   (D)   Smoking or any use of a tobacco product is prohibited at Heritage
Crossing, except at locations designated by the city. For purposes of this
subsection (D), smoking and tobacco are defined to include, but are not limited
to, cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, clove cigarettes, e-cigarettes, nicotine
vaporizers, nicotine liquids, hookahs, pipes, chew, snuff, smokeless tobacco,
and cannabis.
   (E)   No person shall climb any tree, monument or statue, or walk, stand,
sit or lie upon the monuments, statues, railings, fences, wall, and masonry
columns.
   (F)   No person shall utilize the personal property, fixtures and equipment
of the city, including all chairs, benches and tables, in any manner other than
for the purpose for which they are designed and customarily used. No person
shall stand upon any chairs, benches or tables or sit or lie on the top of any
table or on the back of any chair or bench.
   (G)   No person shall take, remove, destroy, break, cut, injure, mutilate,
or deface in any way, or attach anything to, any structure, monument, statue,
fountain, wall, fence, railing, chair, bench, table or any other personal
property, fixtures or equipment of the city. No chair, bench, table or any
other personal property, fixtures or equipment shall be moved from their
designated location.
   (H)   No person shall remove, destroy, break, injure, mutilate, or deface in
any way any tree, shrub, fern, flower, plant or other vegetation.
   (I)   No swimming, wading or bathing in the Rock River shall be permitted
from Heritage Crossing.
   (J)   No person shall deposit objects of any kind, other than human waste or
toilet tissue, in the toilets or plumbing fixtures of the restrooms located
within Heritage Crossing.
   (K)   No person shall utilize the electric outlets within Heritage Crossing
for personal use.
   (L)   No person subject to an ejection or exclusion order shall be present
within Heritage Crossing.
   (M)   No person shall unreasonably disturb or interfere with any person
occupying Heritage Crossing in connection with, or participating in, any
activity programmed or scheduled by the city or by the Dixon Chamber of
Commerce and Main Street. (Ord. 3169, 10-7-2019)
3-23-4: EJECTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy or right of action allowed by law,
ejections and exclusions from Heritage Crossing are authorized in accordance
with this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the
ejection or exclusion of a person for lawfully exercising free speech rights or
other rights protected by the Illinois or United States Constitutions. However,
a person lawfully exercising these protected rights but who commits an act that
is not protected can be subject to ejection or exclusion as provided in this
section.
   (B)   Oral Warning.
      1.   An authorized officer shall attempt to give a person who may be
subject to ejection or exclusion under this section an oral warning and a
reasonable opportunity to stop engaging in the prohibited conduct; provided,
however, failure to give an actual oral warning does not nullify the
effectiveness of an ejection or exclusion.
      2.   An authorized officer is not required to attempt to give an oral
warning before issuing an ejection or exclusion where the behavior, conduct or
activity constitutes one or more of the following:
         (a)   A felony or misdemeanor.
         (b)   Dangerous or threatening behavior. Behavior is dangerous or
threatening if a reasonable person exposed to or experiencing such behavior
could believe that the person would be in imminent danger of physical harm.
   (C)   Ejection. An authorized officer may issue an ejection to a person who
engages in prohibited conduct and direct that person to immediately leave
Heritage Crossing for the remainder of the day.
   (D)   Exclusion. An authorized officer may issue an exclusion to a person
who engages in prohibited conduct and direct that person to immediately leave
Heritage Crossing, subject to the following:
      1.   The length of exclusion shall be for thirty (30) days, unless:
         (a)   The person to be excluded has also been excluded previously from
Heritage Crossing for any reason within three (3) years before the date of the
present exclusion, then the exclusion shall be for ninety (90) days.
         (b)   The person to be excluded has also been excluded previously from
Heritage Crossing for any reason on two (2) or more occasions within three (3)
years before the date of the present exclusion, then the exclusion shall be for
one hundred eighty (180) days.
      2.   The exclusion shall be in writing, signed by the authorized officer
issuing the exclusion, and include:
         (a)   The date of issuance;
         (b)   A brief description of the prohibited conduct giving rise to the
exclusion;
         (c)   The length of the exclusion;
         (d)   A statement that the person may not enter Heritage Crossing
during the length of the exclusion;
         (e)   A statement that violation of the terms of the exclusion
constitutes prohibited conduct and may lead to further exclusion from Heritage
Crossing and to arrest and prosecution for criminal trespass; and
         (f)   A statement that any person subject to exclusion may appeal the
length of the exclusion in accordance with the process set forth in section 3-
24-4(D)3. of this chapter.
      3.   Any person subject to exclusion may appeal the length of the
exclusion to the mayor. A written request for appeal, signed by the appellant,
must be received by the mayor at City Hall within five (5) days of the date of
issuance of the exclusion. The request for appeal must state an address and one
or more telephone numbers at which the appellant may be reached. The filing of
an appeal does not postpone the immediate commencement of the exclusion. If a
request for appeal is received, then the mayor or his or her designee shall
conduct a hearing on the appeal as follows:
         (a)   The mayor, within three (3) business days after receipt of the
request for appeal, shall notify the appellant with the date, time and place of
the hearing, which hearing date may not be less than five (5) business days
after notice is given. The notice may be sent by U.S. Mail or provided by
telephone.
         (b)   If the appellant is unable to attend the hearing as scheduled,
then the appellant must contact the mayor's office at least three (3) business
days before the hearing date and request that the hearing be rescheduled. The
failure to contact the mayor's office is grounds for dismissal of the appeal.
         (c)   The hearing will be conducted at City Hall and does not need to
be a public hearing. At the hearing, the appellant may give testimony in
support of his or her appeal and present facts, circumstances, evidence, and
witnesses to rebut the basis for the length of the exclusion. The appellant may
also ask questions of any witnesses who testify in support of the length of the
exclusion. Rules of evidence and procedure shall not be strictly applied. The
mayor or his or her designee may examine witnesses and continue the hearing to
a date certain if necessary to accommodate the scheduling of witnesses.
         (d)   If on the date set for hearing the appellant fails to appear or
is otherwise not represented at the hearing by his or her attorney, then the
appeal shall be dismissed.
         (e)   Within five (5) business days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the mayor or his or her designee shall issue a written determination
on the appeal. The mayor or his or her designee may reduce the length of the
exclusion, sustain the length of the exclusion or, based on aggravating
evidence presenting at the hearing, increase the length of the exclusion. The
determination of the mayor or his or her designee is final. (Ord. 3169, 10-7-
2019)
3-23-5: PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding and in addition to the foregoing, any person found guilty of
prohibited conduct at Heritage Crossing shall be punished by a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 3169, 10-7-2019)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
VITAL STATISTICS
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Administration
4-3-3: Residential Solid Waste Collection And Disposal
4-3-4: Nonresidential Waste Collection And Disposal
4-3-5: Residential Solid Waste Collection Fees
4-3-6: Disposal Of Solid Waste Other Than By Collection
4-3-7: Failure Of Owner To Remove Waste
4-3-8: Theft Of Recyclables
4-3-9: Deposits In Streets
4-3-10: Deposits Of Waste
4-3-11: Scavenger's License Required
4-3-12: Transportation Of Loose Materials
4-3-13: Burning
4-3-14: Fines
4-3-15: Landfill Fees (Rep. 2020 Code)
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings assigned to them in the
current written contract for residential solid waste collection and disposal
between the city and the entity performing solid waste disposal and collection.
(2020 Code)
4-3-2: ADMINISTRATION:
All matters relating to or affecting the accumulation, collection, removal or
disposal of solid waste shall be under the supervision of the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee. (2020 Code)
4-3-3: RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Residential Service Required: Every person in possession of a
residential unit in the city shall, except as otherwise herein provided, be
required to have accumulations of solid waste collected and disposed of
regularly and systematically at least once each seven (7) days by the
contractor. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied when either water or
domestic light and power services are being supplied thereto. The city shall
have the authority to inspect the premises of any residential unit and cause to
be removed therefrom any and all solid waste found. The owner of the property
upon which the residential unit is located and the producer shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the collection and removal of the solid waste and
liable for payment of the fee described hereunder. The collection and disposal
service is furnished to the residential unit only upon the condition that the
owner of the residential unit and the producer are jointly and severally liable
for said service to the city and the contractor.
   (B)   Authorization: At any residential unit all solid waste shall be
collected and disposed of by the contractor and, except as otherwise may be
provided herein, shall not be collected or disposed of in any other manner.
   (C)   Exclusive Contract:
      1.   All solid waste shall be collected from all residential units within
the city by the contractor under exclusive contract with the city. No persons
shall use the services of any other scavenger for the collection of any waste,
unless specifically provided for in said exclusive contract or this chapter.
      2.   Residents may employ any licensed scavenger to collect and dispose
of construction debris, bulky waste and such other waste materials as may be
specifically permitted under the terms of said exclusive contract; provided,
that such scavenger must be licensed to do business by the city pursuant to
section
4-3-11 of this chapter.
      3.   The terms of said exclusive contract are incorporated by reference
into this section and shall be binding upon residents as if fully set forth
herein. A true and correct copy of the contract is filed at City Hall, 121 West
2nd Street, Dixon, Illinois, and is available for viewing by the public. The
terms of the contract shall be binding in the event of any conflict with any
other terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Collection: The contractor shall provide collection services to each
residential unit as more particularly set forth in the exclusive contract. No
collections by the contractor or any other scavenger licensed to do business in
the city shall begin prior to six o’clock (6:00) A.M., nor continue after six
thirty o’clock (6:30) P.M. on the same day.
   (E)   Containers:
      1.   Except as may otherwise be provided for herein, no person shall
permit any waste material to accumulate on his/her premises except in
containers. Each person in possession of any premises in the city where persons
reside shall provide and at all times properly maintain sufficient containers
for the weekly collection of such waste. Each person in possession of such
premises shall cause to be deposited in such container all waste material
produced in or on, or brought into or on such premises, as soon as practicable
after the same is produced in or on, or brought therein and shall be done so in
such manner as may be necessary to prevent scattering.
      2.   Contractor may decline to collect any container not placed as
provided herein. Containers which are other than as specified in the exclusive
contract shall not be disposed of by the contractor.
      3.   All waste material shall be placed in an orderly fashion by the
resident of the dwelling unit at or prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the day
scheduled for pick up but in no event prior to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M.
on the evening preceding a scheduled pick up.
      4.   All containers and waste material shall be removed from the curb, so
as to be hidden from the street and adjacent property owners within twenty four
(24) hours after the contractor has been present for the purpose of collection.
The contractor's refusal to collect such waste does not limit the requirements
provided for herein.
   (F)   Disposal Of Rubbish By Permit:
      1.   The owner or resident of a residential unit shall be allowed to
utilize a commercial container provided by any licensed scavenger at that
residential unit as a container for the disposal of "rubbish" (as that term is
defined in the exclusive contract with the contractor) in accordance with this
subsection (F). Such scavenger need not be the contractor employed by the city
but must be licensed to do business by the city pursuant to section
4-3-11 of this chapter. No commercial container shall be allowed or utilized
unless a permit therefor shall have been issued by the city building department
prior to placement of the commercial container at the residential unit.
      2.   Upon application of the owner or resident of a residential unit and
payment of the permit fee established from time to time by the city, a
commercial container permit shall be issued to such owner or occupant for the
disposal of rubbish generated at the designated residential unit. Such permit
shall be issued for a period of thirty (30) days. No commercial container
permit shall be issued for the same residential unit more than two (2) times in
any one calendar year. The permit, when issued, shall be displayed prominently
in a front window of the residential unit so as to be visible from the street
upon which the residential unit fronts with the date of expiration facing the
street.
      3.   The application for commercial container permit shall be upon forms
as prescribed from time to time by the city building department and shall
include at least the following information: the name, address and phone number
of the applicant; the address of the residential unit for which the permit is
sought; and the name of the licensed scavenger providing the commercial
container. No permit shall be granted to an applicant or for a residential unit
whose city water or sewer account is in arrears or whose account with the
city's contractor for residential solid waste collection and disposal is in
arrears.
      4.   Commercial containers placed in accordance with this subsection (F)
shall be utilized only for the disposal of rubbish, and no other materials or
wastes shall be placed therein nor disposed of using the commercial container.
The commercial container shall be "tipped" or dumped at least one time during
the thirty (30) day period for which a permit is issued and shall be maintained
in such manner, including covering, as may be necessary to prevent scattering
of rubbish. Any other materials or waste generated at the residential unit for
which the commercial container permit is issued shall be disposed of in
otherwise approved containers and in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      5.   Each application for a commercial container permit shall be
accompanied by the payment of a fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00). The
permit fees and copies of the application shall be deposited with the city
building department. The city building department shall maintain a record of
each application and permit granted, the date when granted, the date of
expiration, and copies of each application. (2020 Code)
4-3-4: NONRESIDENTIAL WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Service Required:
      1.   Other than owners of residential units, it shall be the duty of
every property owner, including multi-family dwelling units not qualifying as
residential units, commercial, business and industrial establishments, to
provide for the collection and removal of all waste of any quantity whatsoever
generated on such property at least once every seven (7) day period, or more
frequently if required, so as to avoid health hazards or unreasonable
accumulations of waste.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every property owner who provides for the
collection and removal of waste generated by such property, to effect proper
placement of containers so as to not be visible from the street or adjacent
properties if reasonably possible.
   (B)   Containers: Containers for such waste shall be watertight, equipped
with tightfitting covers and be so designed as to prevent waste deposited
therein from being blown or scattered about the premises.
   (C)   Location: All areas set aside for the collection of waste shall be so
located as to not be unsightly in appearance and offensive in odor and shall be
so maintained as to prevent waste from scattering and becoming windblown.
   (D)   Licensing Requirements: It shall be the duty of every property owner
who provides for the collection and removal of waste, in any quantity
whatsoever generated by that property, to see that such collection is effected
by the contractor or a scavenger duly licensed to do business in the city
pursuant to section
4-3-11 of this chapter.
   (E)   Hours Of Operation By Scavengers: The hours of operation specified in
subsection
4-3-3(D) of this chapter shall also apply to nonresidential collection and
disposal.
   (F)   Hazardous Waste: The applicable state regulations shall govern the
removal and disposal of hazardous waste. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
   (G)   Property Owner: No owner of any "nonresidential property" (hereinafter
defined as any real property exclusive of a residential unit) shall allow waste
generated at any dwelling unit to be placed in any container belonging to or
used by said nonresidential property owner. No resident of a dwelling unit
shall deposit waste generated at any dwelling unit in a container belonging to
or used by a nonresidential property owner. (Ord. 1769, 10-4-1993; amd. 2020
Code)
4-3-5: RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FEES:
   (A)   Residential Collections: Fees for residential solid waste collection
and disposal shall be as set forth in the exclusive contract between the city
and the contractor.
   (B)   Billing: Fees for residential solid waste collection and disposal
shall be billed and collected as set forth in the exclusive contract between
the city and the contractor.
   (C)   Waste Collections Not Covered By Exclusive Contract: Waste collection
and disposal service not covered by the exclusive contract between the city and
the contractor shall be performed by a scavenger duly licensed to do business
in the city in accordance with section
4-3-11 of this chapter at such schedules and rates as may be mutually agreed
upon between the licensed scavenger and the owner or resident. (2020 Code)
4-3-6: DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE OTHER THAN BY COLLECTION:
   (A)   Burning Restricted; Burying Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to burn waste within the city except in accordance with section
8-3-5-1 of this code. Properly designed and installed kitchen garbage disposal
units may be used for the disposal of garbage into the city's sanitary sewer
system. It shall be unlawful for any person to bury waste anywhere within the
city or to permit the same to be placed or accumulated at any place or manner
other than in a proper container.
   (B)   Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the occupant and/or
owner of any premises in the city to accumulate thereon any waste except in
compliance with the provisions hereof.
   (C)   Depositing Containers On Another's Premises: It shall be unlawful for
any person to deposit his refuse or other waste upon the property of another
for the purpose of having such waste picked up by a scavenger or the
contractor. Any person committing this prohibited act shall, in addition to
violating this chapter, be deemed to have committed the offense of littering.
(Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
4-3-7: FAILURE OF OWNER TO REMOVE WASTE:
   (A)   If the owner of private property in the city upon which there is
deposited any waste in violation of this chapter refuses or neglects to remove
such waste or to have the same removed as herein provided, within seven (7)
days after written notice shall have been given to the property owner by
personal delivery or by certified mail, the city or its designee may remove
such waste and may collect from such owner the cost thereof. (Ord. 2121, 11-2-
1998)
   (B)   Such cost shall be a lien upon the real estate affected if within
sixty (60) days after such cost and expenses incurred by the city or the person
performing the removal service by authority of the city in his or its own name
files notice of lien in the office of the recorder of deeds. Such notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the removal service, 3) the date, or
dates, when such costs and expense was incurred by the city, and 4) the date
when notice was served.
   (C)   Upon payment of the cost and expense of the owner or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien. The
lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of mortgages or
mechanics' liens. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
4-3-8: THEFT OF RECYCLABLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pick up any
recyclable material or other waste placed for collection at the curb as part of
the city's residential solid waste collection and disposal services contract
intended for collection and disposal by the contractor as provided for in
subsection
4-3-3(C) of this chapter. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
4-3-9: DEPOSITS IN STREETS:
No person shall deposit any waste in any street, alley, or upon the portion of
the banks of Rock River or any public place except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
4-3-10: DEPOSITS OF WASTE:
No person shall cast or leave exposed in or about any private premises or on
any lot, street, or alley or about any sewer, gutter or sluiceway in the city
any waste. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
4-3-11: SCAVENGER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person, either as principal or agent, shall engage in the business
of collection and hauling waste in the city without having first obtained a
license as a scavenger. As a condition to obtaining a scavenger's license, each
applicant must offer recycling collection services. Provided, however, no
license shall be required for any charitable or religious organization which
solicits donations of junk when such organization is operating not for profit
to any individual member thereof and the proceeds are applied to the object for
which it exists.
   (B)   The licenses provided in this section shall be limited to eight (8)
persons and in no event shall scavenger licenses be issued during any one year
to more than eight (8) collectors, operating either as an individual or as a
firm of individuals. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993)
   (C)   Upon notification by the city that any licensee's equipment is being
employed or services are being provided in violation of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, subsection
4-3-3(C) of this chapter, any licensee under this section shall be obliged,
upon such notice, to promptly secure compliance or otherwise to remove any of
licensee's equipment used in violation of this chapter from any site within the
city. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be grounds
for suspension, revocation, or nonrenewal of the license issued under this
section upon notice and opportunity for a hearing to contest any alleged
failure to comply. (Ord. 2878, 6-18-2012)
4-3-12: TRANSPORTATION OF LOOSE MATERIALS:
No person shall transport any sand, gravel, earth, ashes, stone, coal,
wastepaper, filth, waste or other loose or offensive materials or liquids in
any vehicle upon the streets or alleys of the city unless the box or container
of such materials upon the vehicle shall be sufficiently firm and tight so as
to prevent the falling or spilling of any such material from the vehicle upon
the streets or alleys and the vehicles containing such material shall have a
cover of canvas or other suitable covering so as to prevent the blowing,
falling and spilling of such material upon the streets or alleys. (Ord. 1758,
8-16-1993)
4-3-13: BURNING:
It shall be unlawful to burn any waste in the city limits except as provided in
Section
8-3-5-1 of this code. (2020 Code)
4-3-14: FINES:
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2913,
6-3-2013)
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall have the
authority to direct payment of twenty five percent (25%) of any fine revenue
received by the city from a violation of this chapter to the person or persons
other than the violator who provided information that led to the conviction or
plea of guilty. It is at the sole discretion of the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee to determine whether the information provided led to a
conviction of a violation of this chapter, and the commissioner of streets or
his designee and the city shall not be subject to any suit, judgment, claim or
appeal of this determination. (Ord. 1758, 8-16-1993; amd. 2020 Code)
4-3-15: LANDFILL FEES:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKE AND DUST
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Adoption Of Certain Statutes
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: License Required For Mobile Home Parks
4-5-4: General Standards For Mobile Home Parks
4-5-5: Permit Required For Mobile Home Parks
4-5-6: General Standards For Mobile Homes
4-5-7: Mobile Homes Outside Of Mobile Home Parks
4-5-8: Permanent Affixation Of Mobile Home
4-5-1: ADOPTION OF CERTAIN STATUTES:
Mobile homes and mobile home parks shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Act,
42 USC 5401 et seq., and the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act, 210 ILCS 115/1 et
seq., each as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, which are hereby adopted by reference. Except as
otherwise expressly defined in section
4-5-1, and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and phrases
set forth in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in the Mobile Home
Park Act. (2020 Code)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them:
 
                          The National Manufactured Housing Construction and
MANUFACTURED HOUSING ACT: Safety Act, 42 USC 5401 et seq., as amended from time
                          to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
                          Any structure placed in accordance with this chapter
                          that meets the definition of a "manufactured home" as
MOBILE HOME:              set forth in the Manufactured Housing Act. The term
                          "mobile home" shall not include modular homes and
                          their support systems.
                          The Illinois Mobile Home Park Act, 210 ILCS 115/1 et
MOBILE HOME PARK ACT:     seq., as amended from time to time, and the
                          regulations promulgated thereunder. (2020 Code)
 
4-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a mobile
home park within the corporate limits of the city unless such person shall
first obtain a license from the city therefor.
   (B)   An application for license shall be made at the office of the city
clerk, shall state the name and address of the owner and manager of the mobile
home park, the location of the park, and the maximum number of mobile homes at
the park, and shall be accompanied by plans of the park showing all buildings,
toilets, baths, washbasin facilities, sinks, water faucets, sewer connections,
streets, driveways and other improvements and utilities. In the case of a
partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other business, it shall
include the date of its formation, the objects for which it was formed, and the
names and addresses of its officers, directors, members, partners or other
persons authorized to act for and on behalf of the business. A certified copy
of the organizational documents filed with the Illinois Secretary of State and
a current Certificate of Good Standing or Certificate of Existence, as
applicable, shall be provided. The application shall also include a statement
whether the applicant has made any applications for a similar license other
than as described in the application, and the disposition of such application,
and whether a previous license by any state, or subdivision thereof, or by the
federal government, has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   (C)   No license shall be issued or renewed until the mobile home park has
been inspected by the city building official for compliance with this chapter
and all applicable codes and regulations of the city.
   (D)   The city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant upon
demonstration of compliance with all requirements of this chapter and the
Mobile Home Park Act. The annual license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
Licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. There shall be no proration
of partial years.
   (E)   The license shall be conspicuously posted on the premises of the
mobile home park at all times. (2020 Code)
4-5-4: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   (A)   Every mobile home park shall be managed by a responsible individual
whose name, address and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the
city. The manager shall be responsible, along with the licensee, for violations
of any provisions of this Chapter or the Mobile Home Park Act.
   (B)   An adequate supply of drinking water from the city's water supply
facilities shall be available to meet the requirements of the mobile home park.
All connections shall comply with applicable city ordinances relating to the
water supply for homes.
   (C)   Every mobile home park shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall provide for the collection or removal of garbage and other
waste material on at least a weekly basis.
   (D)   Each individual lot within the mobile home park shall abut or face a
private or public street. All streets shall have unobstructed access to a
public street.
   (E)   Mobile home parks shall be kept adequately lighted at all times with
lighting fixtures that are in good working order and of sufficient wattage for
the safety of occupants and visitors.
   (F)   An accurate record shall be kept of all mobile homes, including the
name of the owner, the date of arrival, make, model and registration
information regarding the mobile home and towing vehicle, the license number,
and the square footage of floor space. (2020 Code)
4-5-5: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR MOBILE HOMES:
Every mobile home to be moved on or off a lot shall be required to secure a
building permit and a permit for moving buildings and shall pay all applicable
fees associated therewith. A building permit and payment of the applicable fee
shall be required for any additions constructed to the mobile home. (2020 Code)
4-5-6: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOMES:
All mobile homes placed upon any lot within the corporate limits of the city
after August 1, 2018, must have been manufactured not more than ten (10) years
prior to the date of the application for a building permit allowing placement
of the mobile home upon said lot and must comply with the construction
standards set forth in the Manufactured Housing Act, which compliance shall be
verified by the presence of the permanently attached HUD seal/emblem on the
mobile home. If the mobile home is a multi-wide unit, each unit must have such
a HUD seal/emblem. In addition to the foregoing, no mobile home shall be placed
or remain upon any lot unless said mobile home shall meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   No mobile home shall be located closer than five feet (5') to the side
or rear lot lines or closer than ten feet (10') to any public street or alley
or to another building structure.
   (B)   Each mobile home shall have all wheels, tongue and hitch mechanisms
removed or retracted.
   (C)   The base of the mobile home shall be completely enclosed commercial
skirting. All skirting shall be weather resistance, shall be uniform in
construction, style and color, and shall be compatible with the siding of the
mobile home.
   (D)   The minimum size of the mobile home shall be eight hundred (800)
square feet, exclusive of any porch, garage or other non-dwelling space.
   (E)   Each mobile home shall have smoke detectors, carbon monoxide
detectors, and fire extinguishers installed and in good working condition in
accordance with manufacturer specifications and in accordance with all
applicable codes, regulations and ordinances.
   (F)   A mobile home shall be used only as a residential dwelling unit. No
mobile home shall be used as a storage building or for any other commercial or
business use. The area underneath a mobile home shall not be used for storage.
   (G)   All mobile homes shall be securely anchored in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
   (H)   All mobile homes shall be maintained so as to be structurally sound,
waterproof and with all features and systems properly installed, in good
working condition, and in compliance with all applicable codes, regulations and
ordinances.
A mobile home lawfully placed, in full compliance with all applicable codes,
regulations and ordinances, and existing on August 1, 2018, may be continued in
use even though such mobile home does not conform to the construction and
installation requirements of this chapter; provided, that there shall be no
physical change, alteration or improvement to the mobile home other than
routine maintenance and repair. If there is a physical change, alteration or
improvement to the mobile home other than routine maintenance and repair, then
the mobile home shall comply with the requirements of this chapter. (2020 Code)
4-5-7: MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate or maintain a mobile home upon
any lot within the city except for lots located within a mobile home park
licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (2020 Code)
4-5-8: PERMANENT AFFIXATION OF MOBILE HOME:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other transporting
devices from any mobile home or to otherwise affix the mobile home permanently
to the ground or place the same on a foundation so as to prevent ready removal
of such mobile home, unless a permit to do so is first obtained from the city
as is required for the construction of a new building. Any such alteration
shall be construed as converting the mobile home into a building and will
subject the building to the requirements of the zoning and building ordinances
of the city for single-family dwellings and any other applicable codes,
regulations and ordinances. (2020 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MILK
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definition; Prohibition
4-7-2: Nonsummary Abatement; Notice
4-7-3: Nonsummary Abatement
4-7-4: Summary Abatement
4-7-4-1: Penalty
4-7-5: Plants, Weeds And Grass
4-7-6: Chronic Nuisance Property
4-7-7: Noise Control
4-7-1: DEFINITION; PROHIBITION:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
individual within the territorial limits of the city, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   (A)   Any act of offense which is a nuisance according to the common law of
the state of Illinois, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the city. In addition, the officials of the municipality shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use
by a person of property real or personal or from his own improper, indecent or
unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
his ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   (C)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   (D)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   (E)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying places.
   (F)   To erect, continue to use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals, or of the public.
   (G)   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same on,
or affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles,
or on hydrants, other public or private property, or on rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without the permission of the proper authorities.
   (H)   To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about to sell or
lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property or is about to
buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real property, when
the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person's attempt to sell,
buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to a person's sale,
purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   (I)   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property
or right of way, highway, park, street or parkway anywhere in the city any
trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or parts thereof,
or miscellaneous waste. (Ord. 1063, 1-5-1981)
   (J)   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building, any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to a properly licensed junkyard or other
permitted outdoor storage use which is in full compliance with all of the
ordinances of the city governing the same. (Ord. 1420, 4-4-1988)
   (K)   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation or
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of repair,
defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of
contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   (L)   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats.
(Ord. 1063, 1-5-1981)
   (M)   (Rep. by Ord. 3011, 5-16-2016)
   (N)   To keep an inoperable motor vehicle on public or private property and
in view of the general public. As used in this section, "inoperable motor
vehicle" means any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7)
days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations. (Ord. 1420, 4-4-
1988)
Nothing in this subsection shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within
an enclosed building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over twenty
five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of
business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. 2050, 12-
15-1997)
   (O)   To disrupt, disturb, or interfere with any ditches or natural drains
across public or private property in such a manner that such ditches or natural
drains shall fill or become obstructed with any matter which materially impedes
or interferes, or which creates a reasonable likelihood of materially impeding
or interfering with the flow of water, or which redirects water onto another's
property except as otherwise authorized by law, or to otherwise create or
permit the existence of a condition of standing water where the standing water
may facilitate or encourage the breeding of mosquitoes. For purposes of this
subsection, "ditch" shall mean any artificially constructed open drain or
natural drain that has been artificially improved, and "drain" shall mean any
ditch, watercourse or conduit, whether open, covered or enclosed, natural or
artificial, or partially natural and partially artificial, by which surface
waters coming upon or falling upon lands are carried away in the normal course
of drainage. (Ord. 2971, 8-3-2015)
4-7-2: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT; NOTICE:
   (A)   Except where otherwise prohibited by the ordinances of the city, any
officer of the city possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served a
notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or
upon which any nuisance exists, requiring them or either or both of them, to
abate the same within a specified reasonable time, which shall be not less than
seven (7) days in the case of inoperable motor vehicles, in such manner as the
notice shall direct. (Ord. 1420, 4-4-1988)
   (B)   Any person may contest the determination that the vehicle is a
nuisance as defined in this chapter, by filing written request for a hearing
with the chief of police within seven (7) days of receipt of notice provided
under this section. Upon such request, a hearing will be conducted by the mayor
of the city, at which time such person will have the opportunity to present
evidence that the vehicle does not constitute a nuisance. The decision of the
mayor shall be final. Failure to request a hearing within seven (7) days of
receipt of the notice shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing. If a
hearing is requested in the manner set forth herein, no action will be taken
with respect to the vehicle until the hearing is completed and the mayor's
decision is final. (Ord. 1459, 11-21-1988)
4-7-3: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance within the
specified reasonable time, the corporate authorities may proceed to abate the
nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without limiting the
generality thereof, the following:
   (A)   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by section
4-7-4-1 of this chapter by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
   (B)   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of a
lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In the case of an inoperable motor vehicle, authorizing a law
enforcement agency, with applicable jurisdiction, to remove any inoperable
motor vehicle or part thereof. (Ord. 1420, 4-4-1988)
4-7-4: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the city possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to persons or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in
the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the municipal officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance requires continuing acts by the corporate authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatements, it
shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial
process as soon as readily possible. (Ord. 1063, 1-5-1981)
4-7-4-1: PENALTY:
Any individual violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 2258, 6-19-2000)
4-7-5: PLANTS, WEEDS AND GRASS:
   (A)   Declaration Of Nuisance: No owner of or other person occupying any
lot, place, or area within the city, including the parkway located between the
sidewalk or property line and the improved and traveled portion of the public
way adjacent to such lot, place, or area located within the city, shall permit
any weeds, grass, unhealthful or other noxious growth (all hereinafter referred
to as "weeds") other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to
grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8") on such lot, place, area, or
parkway. Any weeds exceeding eight inches (8") in height are hereby declared to
be a nuisance. (Ord. 2005, 8-4-1997)
   (B)   Notice To Destroy: The building official is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify, or cause to be notified, in writing, or by personal
service, the owner of any such parcel of real estate within the city limits to
cut and destroy said weeds located upon said owner's real estate. Said notice
shall be by registered mail addressed to said owner at his last known address
or by personal service. (Ord. 1050, 9-15-1980)
   (C)   Refusal To Remove: Upon the refusal or neglect of any owners so
notified to cut and destroy said weeds growing or located upon said owner's
real estate within five (5) days after receipt of the written notice provided
for in subsection (B) of this section or within five (5) days after the date of
said notice in the event the same is returned to the city because of the
inability to make delivery thereof, the building official is hereby authorized
and empowered to provide for the cutting and destroying of said weeds either by
employees of the city or by persons performing this service by authority of the
building official. The city shall be entitled to collect the costs incurred in
the cutting and destroying of said weeds from the owner or owners of said real
estate. In the event employees of the city cut and destroy said weeds, the
minimum charge for said action shall be forty dollars ($40.00). (Ord. 1675, 7-
20-1992)
   (D)   Lien: The cost incurred in cutting and destroying said weeds shall be
a lien upon the real estate affected and may be perfected and enforced in
accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15 or other applicable law.
The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting forth: 1) a description
of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof; 2) the amount of
money representing the costs and expenses incurred or payable for the service;
and 3) the date or dates when such costs and expenses were incurred by the
city. The person to whom the tax bill was sent for the general taxes on the
property for the last preceding year shall be served a copy of the notice of
lien; service is to be made personally or by certified mail. (Ord. 2005, 8-4-
1997)
   (E)   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section, in
addition to the provisions for lien contained herein, shall, on conviction, be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. In any case in which an offense is
of a continuing nature, each day such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate violation and shall subject the person so violating said provisions of
this section to a separate fine for each such day. (Ord. 1050, 9-15-1980; amd.
2020 Code)
4-7-6: CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY:
   (A)   General Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   DWELLING: A house, duplex, condominium unit, apartment building, mobile
home, manufactured home, trailer or any other structure or place used or
intended to be used for human habitation, including common areas within the
structure when buildings or structures are used for more than one dwelling, and
accessory buildings such as garages located on the same premises.
   IN OR ON THE PREMISES OF ANY DWELLING: Either within a dwelling or the area
within the boundary lines of any real property of the same ownership on which
such dwelling is located.
   OCCUPANT: Any person who lives in or has possession of, or holds an
occupancy interest in a dwelling; or any person residing in or frequenting the
premises of the dwelling with the actual or implied permission of the owner or
lessee.
   OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable ownership interest in the dwelling, as recorded in the official
records of the state, county, or municipality as holding title to the dwelling;
or otherwise having control of the dwelling, including the guardian of an
estate of any such person, the executor or administrator of an estate or
trustee lawfully entitled to possession or control of such property.
   (B)   Chronic Nuisance Property Defined: "Chronic nuisance property" is a
dwelling within which, or on the premises of which, any three (3) of the
following, arising out of separate and distinct facts and circumstances, have
occurred within a ninety (90) day consecutive period:
      1.   Any felony or misdemeanor involving or constituting a breach of the
peace as defined by statutes of the state of Illinois and/or the ordinances of
the city of Dixon; or
      2.   Any violation of title 5 of this code, 1963, as amended, relating to
alcoholic beverages arising out of separate and distinct facts and
circumstances, so long as such violation involves or constitutes a breach of
the peace;
      3.   Disorderly conduct, as defined under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/26-1;
      4.   Unlawful discharge of a firearm, as defined under 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1, 5/24-1.2, 5/24-1.2-5, or 5/24-1.5;
      5.   Loud or disturbing noise in violation of section
4-7-7 of this chapter.
   (C)   Violation:
      1.   No owner or occupant of any dwelling shall allow or permit such
dwelling to be, or become, a chronic nuisance property.
      2.   An owner and/or occupant shall be deemed to have allowed or
permitted a dwelling to be, or become, a chronic nuisance property if:
         (a)   The owner or occupant has personally committed the acts set
forth above;
         (b)   Such acts were committed by invitees of the occupant or owner;
or
         (c)   Such acts were committed by persons attending events or
functions sponsored, permitted, or allowed by the occupant or owner;
         (d)   Such acts were committed by a combination of subsection (C)2(a),
(C)2(b) or (C)2(c) of this section.
   (D)   Notice Of Chronic Nuisance Property:
      1.   When the chief of police, or his or her designee, determines that
property within the city has become "chronic nuisance property" as defined in
subsection (B) of this section, the chief of police shall notify the owner and/
or occupant of the property that the property has been determined to be chronic
nuisance property and may be subject to closure.
      2.   The notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police, or his or her designee,
has found the property to constitute chronic nuisance property with a concise
and detailed description of the actions, dates, times and persons committing
the actions leading to that finding;
         (c)   A statement that the owner and/or occupant has the opportunity
to respond in writing to the notice within fifteen (15) days from the date of
the notice, describing what steps the owner and/or occupant has or will take to
remedy the chronic nuisance conditions on the property, or the property may be
subject to closure and/or penalties assessed;
         (d)   Such notice shall be deemed to be properly delivered if
personally served or if sent via certified mail, to the owner's or occupant's
last known address with a copy of the notice posted conspicuously at the
property in question;
         (e)   If the owner's and/or occupant's response to the notice is not
satisfactory to the Chief of Police, or if the owner and/or occupant fails to
respond to the notice, then the Council of the City of Dixon may authorize the
City Attorney to initiate proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction
seeking closure of the chronic nuisance property or any part thereof, and/or
the imposition of civil penalties against any or all of the owners and/or
occupants of the property or any other appropriate relief allowed by law.
   (E)   Action To Abate: In addition to prosecution of any offense defined
under law or in pursuit of any other remedies available, the City Council may
authorize the City Attorney to prosecute an action for equitable relief, in the
name of the City, to abate the chronic nuisance property and to enjoin any
person who owns, rents, or occupies the dwelling in question from using or
permitting its use in violation of the provisions of this section. In any such
prosecution, the City shall bear the burden to show by a preponderance of the
evidence that the property is "chronic nuisance property" as defined in
subsection (B) of this section. No judgment or finding of violation of this
section shall be entered against an owner and/or occupant who has, in good
faith, endeavored to prevent or abate the nuisance. The burden of establishing
good faith shall be that of the owner and/or occupant to show by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   (F)   Penalties:
      1.   Any property to be found "chronic nuisance property", as defined in
this section, shall be closed and secured against all use and occupancy for a
period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than one hundred eighty (180)
days. If requested by the City, the court may authorize the City to physically
close the property against use or occupancy if the owner and/or occupant fails
to do so within the time specified in the court's order, and the owner and/or
occupant shall be responsible for the cost thereof. In any such action seeking
closure of the property, all persons with an interest of record in the property
including purchasers, beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title
to the property, and lawful occupants shall be named as defendants and served
with process.
      2.   In addition to the remedies provided in subsection (F)1 of this
section, the court may impose a civil penalty in an amount not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day,
for each day that the owner and/or occupant had actual knowledge that the
property was chronic nuisance property. The owner and/or occupant is presumed
to have actual knowledge if notice was provided to the owner and/or occupant in
accordance with subsection (D) of this section. (Ord. 2585, 5-15-2006)
   (G)   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the following situations,
and the same shall not constitute chronic nuisance property hereunder, all as
more fully described and defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1.5:
      1.   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if: a) the
contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to domestic violence or
sexual violence; b) the intervention or emergency assistance was needed to
respond to or prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or c) the contact
was made by, or on behalf of, or otherwise concerns an individual with a
disability and the purpose of the contact was related to that individual's
disability;
      2.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic violence
or sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest occurring in
the dwelling unit or on the premises; or
      3.   Criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly relating to domestic violence
or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant's household,
guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member, guest, or other
party. (Ord. 3042, 6-5-2017)
4-7-7: NOISE CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any excessive or unusually loud noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others
within the jurisdictional limits of the City.
   (A)   Application: This section applies to the control of all sound
originating within the jurisdictional limits of the City.
   (B)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
   EMERGENCY: An occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation, or limited liability company.
   (C)   General Prohibition: No person shall make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued:
      1.   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise;
      2.   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity within the jurisdictional limits of the City; or
      3.   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noise emanates, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
   (D)   Determination Of Violation: The factors for determination of whether a
sound violates the general prohibition set forth in subsection (C) of this
section include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The proximity of the sound to residences;
      2.   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      3.   The time of night or day the sound occurs and the duration of the
sound;
      4.   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
   (E)   Exemptions: Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the
prohibitions of this section:
      1.   Repairs of utility structures which pose a clear and immediate
threat to the life, health, or well being of the residents of the City or loss
of property;
      2.   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity, or imminent danger;
      3.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work;
      4.   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on
behalf of the City, the State of Illinois, or the Federal government, between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., when
public welfare and convenience renders it impractical to perform the work
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.;
      5.   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows, and other similar outdoor
events, provided that a permit has been obtained from the City.
   (F)   Enforcement: The Police Chief or duly acting members of the Police
Department will have primary responsibility for the enforcement of the noise
regulations contained in this section. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the Police Chief or duly acting members of the Police Department from obtaining
voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice, or education.
   (G)   Penalty: A person who violates the provision of this section is
subject to a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 et seq., of this Code. (Ord. 3011, 5-16-2016)
CHAPTER 8
EMERGENCY VEHICLE AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
4-8-1: Charges For Emergency Vehicle Ambulance Services
4-8-2: Limitation Of Service (Rep. by Ord. 2938, 4-21-2014)
4-8-3: Payment Of Charges
4-8-1: CHARGES FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLE AMBULANCE SERVICES:
   (A)   The city shall bill Medicare, Medicaid or insurance, as applicable,
the charges set forth below for emergency vehicle ambulance services provided
to any resident or nonresident of the city. The city shall write off any
portion of a resident's bill that is not paid by Medicare, Medicaid or
insurance. Nonresidents shall be required to pay the city any portion of the
bill that is not paid by Medicare, Medicaid or insurance.
      1.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for basic life support; plus
      2.   Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per loaded mile for each mile the
ambulance travels; plus
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for advance life support 1; or
      4.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for advance life support 2.
"Advance life support 2" shall mean a situation which requires administration
of three (3) medications administered, or defibrillation or intubation; plus
      5.   Thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for oxygen.
   (B)   For advance life support intercepts, the city shall charge the
requesting agency a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 2975, 9-8-2015;
amd. Ord. 3163, 9-16-2019; Ord. 3383, 11-20-2023)
4-8-2: LIMITATION OF SERVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2938, 4-21-2014)
4-8-3: PAYMENT OF CHARGES:
   (A)   All bills for emergency vehicle ambulance service charges shall be
paid on or before the due date as noted on the bill. Bills and notices shall be
mailed or delivered to the patient's last known address, but the failure to
receive a bill will not relieve the patient from the obligation to pay the
bill. Unpaid bills become delinquent thirty (30) days after the due date noted
thereon.
   (B)   The Dixon Fire Department shall adjust the charge for emergency
vehicle ambulance services to the current Medicaid rate if the patient and/or
any other person legally obligated to pay provides the Dixon Fire Department
with reliable information that:
      1. The patient and/or any other persons legally obligated to pay has
insufficient annual income to pay the bill without undue hardship. The Dixon
Fire Department shall define "insufficient annual income" from time to time;
provided, that it shall in no event be defined as being more than three hundred
percent (300%) of the then-current Federal Poverty Level as set forth in the
Federal Register; and
      2. The patient is not covered by any insurance that would pay for the
services and cannot obtain Medicare or Medicaid.
   (C)   The Dixon Fire Department has the sole authority to determine whether
the information provided supports an adjustment of the charge. (Ord. 1049, 9-
15-1980; amd. Ord. 1639, 12-2-1991; amd. Ord. 3163, 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 9
NO SMOKING ORDINANCE
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 10
LANDFILL OPERATIONS WITHIN CITY JURISDICTION
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 11
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS AND TECHNICIANS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: License Required
4-11-3: Application For License
4-11-4: Establishment Standards
4-11-5: Prohibitions
4-11-6: Patron's Medical History
4-11-7: Performance Of Procedures
4-11-8: Patron Instructions
4-11-9: Records
4-11-10: Equipment, Instruments And Supplies
4-11-11: Inspection
4-11-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Penalties
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them:
ANTISEPTIC: An agent that destroys disease causing microorganisms on human skin
or mucosa.
BIOMEDICAL WASTE: Any solid or liquid waste which may present a threat of
infection to humans. Biomedical waste includes, but is not limited to, the
following: a) nonliquid tissue, body parts, blood, blood products and body
fluids, b) absorbent materials saturated with blood, blood products, body
fluids or excretions or secretions contaminated with visible blood and
absorbent materials saturated with blood or blood products that have dried, c)
nonabsorbent, disposable devices that have been contaminated with blood, but
have not been treated by an approved method, and d) discarded sharps.
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT: Any permanent place or premises where body art
procedures are performed.
BODY ART PROCEDURE: The practice of applying physical body adornment to an
individual using such invasive methods as body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic
tattooing, branding, scarification, or similar procedures. This term does not
include ear piercing or any procedure performed by a person licensed to
practice medicine pursuant to Illinois law.
BODY ART TECHNICIAN: A person who performs body art procedures.
BODY PIERCING: To make a hole in the body in order to insert or allow the
insertion of any ring, hoop, stud, or other object for the purpose of
ornamentation of the body.
DISINFECT: The destruction of disease causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects or surfaces safe for use
or handling.
EQUIPMENT: All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks, and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishment.
GLOVES: Latex, disposable medical gloves.
HAND SINK: A sink equipped with hot and cold water running under pressure and
with wrist or foot operated controls, used solely for washing hands, arms, or
other portions of the body.
INSTRUMENT: Hand pieces, needles, needle bars, and other instruments that can
come into contact with a patron's body or may be exposed to bodily fluids
during a body art procedure.
LICENSEE: A person who has been issued a license by the mayor to operate a body
art establishment or to perform body art procedures.
LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE: A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
environmental protection agency, or an approximate one to one hundred (1:100)
dilution of household chlorine bleach made fresh daily and dispensed from a
spray bottle (500 ppm; 1/4 cup/gallon or 2 tablespoons/quart of tap water).
PERSON: Any person, individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or
any other form of association or organization.
PROCEDURE SURFACE: The skin area adjacent to and including the area where a
body art procedure is applied, any surface of an inanimate object that contacts
the patron's unclothed body during a body art procedure, or any associated work
area which may require sanitizing.
SANITIZE OR SANITIZING PROCEDURE: A process of reducing the number of disease
causing microorganisms on instruments, equipment or procedure surfaces to a
safe level in accordance with public health standards by a method approved by
the department of public health.
SHARPS: Objects capable of puncturing, lacerating or otherwise penetrating the
skin.
SHARPS CONTAINER: A rigid, leak and puncture resistant container designed
primarily for the containment of sharps. Sharps containers shall be clearly
labeled with the international biological hazard symbol.
STERILIZATION: A very powerful process resulting in the destruction of all
forms of microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
SUPPLIES: Products, other than equipment and instruments, used in the
preparation, performance, aftercare and cleanup of body art procedures.
TATTOO OR TATTOOING: Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under
the skin or mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instruments used to
puncture the skin which results in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa,
including all forms of cosmetic tattooing. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body art procedures
without first obtaining a body art technician license from the city as provided
herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a body art
establishment without first obtaining a body art establishment license from the
city as provided herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body art procedures
except within a licensed body art establishment. Body art procedures shall not
be performed in mobile or temporary vehicles or structures.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a body art establishment
to permit body art procedures to be performed by anyone who does not have a
valid body art technician license.
   (E)   Licenses shall not be transferable and must be renewed as provided in
section
4-11-3 of this chapter.
   (F)   Licensees shall comply at all times with the requirements of this
chapter and shall notify the city clerk within ten (10) days of any change of
the information required to be provided in accordance with section
4-11-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   Every applicant for a license as a body art technician shall submit an
application providing the applicant's name, date of birth, gender, residence
address, mailing address, home and work telephone numbers, place(s) of
employment as a body art technician, and training and experience in body art
procedures.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license as a body art establishment shall submit
an application providing the applicant's name (if a partnership or corporation,
the names and resident addresses of all partners, officers, directors and the
registered agent shall be included); proposed name of the body art
establishment and its street address, mailing address and hours of operation;
the names of all body art technicians and their duties; a description of all
body art procedures to be performed; an inventory of all equipment, instruments
and supplies to be utilized; the names and addresses of manufacturers and
suppliers of all equipment, instruments and supplies to be utilized; and the
name, local address and telephone number of the individual who shall be
responsible for operation of the body art establishment.
   (C)   Application forms may be obtained from, and returned to, the City
Clerk during normal business hours.
   (D)   The fee for a body art establishment license shall be four hundred
twenty dollars ($420.00) per year. The fee for a body art technician license
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
   (E)   Upon determination that an applicant for a license meets the
requirements set forth herein and has paid the required license fee, the Mayor
shall issue the appropriate license to the applicant. All licenses shall be
issued with an effective date of May 1 and, unless earlier suspended or
revoked, shall expire on April 30 of the following year. Licenses may be
renewed by submitting a new application and paying the license fees required by
this section. The fees subject to this section shall be prorated for any
license issued after May 1 on a per diem basis. (Ord. 3078, 1-16-2018)
   (F)   Prior to the issuance or renewal of a body art establishment license,
the City building official and the Fire Chief shall inspect and determine that
the premises for which the license is sought complies with the City's building
and fire regulations. The Mayor shall not issue or renew a license until the
City building official and the Fire Chief have certified that the premises are
in compliance with said regulations. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-4: ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   All licenses shall be posted within the body art establishment in a
prominent and conspicuous area where they may be readily observed by patrons.
   (B)   Body art establishments shall be well ventilated and shall have an
artificial light source equivalent to at least twenty (20) foot-candles at
three feet (3') above floor level, and at least one hundred (100) foot-candles
at the level where body art procedures are performed and where instruments and
sharps are assembled.
   (C)   All surfaces where body art procedures are performed, including patron
chairs and benches, shall be of such construction as to be easily cleaned and
sanitized after each use. Liquid chemical germicide shall be used for cleaning
and sanitizing such surfaces.
   (D)   A separate hand sink supplied with liquid soap and disposable paper
towels shall be located within or immediately adjacent to all areas where body
art procedures are performed. Each hand sink shall serve no more than three (3)
body art technicians. In the absence of a separate washing sink, hand sinks may
be used for initial cleaning of instruments and equipment prior to sanitation
or sterilization procedures. In addition, the body art establishment shall
contain at least one bathroom with a sink and a toilet for use by patrons.
   (E)   A covered refuse receptacle shall be provided in each area where body
art procedures are performed and in each bathroom. These receptacles shall be
emptied daily. Refuse shall be removed from the premises at least weekly. All
refuse receptacles shall be covered and kept clean.
   (F)   Sharps shall be disposed of in sharps containers.
   (G)   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be disposed of immediately after use in appropriate covered containers, unless
the disposable product meets the definition of "biomedical waste". All
biomedical waste shall be disposed of as required by law.
   (H)   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art establishment,
except service animals used by persons with disabilities (e.g., seeing eye
dogs). Fish aquariums are allowed in waiting rooms and nonprocedural areas.
   (I)   No insects, vermin or rodents shall be present in any part of a body
art establishment. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine under
Illinois law, shall tattoo or offer to tattoo a person under twenty one (21)
years of age.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (A) of this section with respect to
tattoos, no person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine under
Illinois law, shall perform or permit the performance of body art procedures
upon a person under eighteen (18) years of age without the presence, photo
identification and written consent of the minor's parent or legal guardian. A
licensee may refuse to perform a body art procedure on a person under eighteen
(18) years of age regardless of the parent's or guardian's consent.
   (C)   No person shall perform or permit the performance of body art
procedures on any person who appears to be under the influence of alcohol or
drugs or is incoherent for any reason.
   (D)   No person shall perform or permit the performance of body art
procedures on any skin or mucosa surface where a rash or any visible infection
is present.
   (E)   No person affected with boils, infected wounds, open sores, abrasions,
keloids, weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory infection shall
work in a body art establishment in any capacity in which the person could
contaminate equipment, instruments, supplies or procedure surfaces with body
substances or pathogenic organisms.
   (F)   No person shall perform or permit the performance of any procedure
implanting any objects under the skin, such as ball bearings or beads.
   (G)   No person shall perform any body art procedure while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-6: PATRON'S MEDICAL HISTORY:
   (A)   Prior to performing any body art procedure, in order to evaluate the
patron's medical condition for receiving a body art procedure, the body art
technician shall specifically request from the patron verbally and in writing
the following information:
      1.   History of diabetes;
      2.   History of hemophilia;
      3.   History of skin disease, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants, etc.;
      4.   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes, or
other skin sensitivities;
      5.   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting, or narcolepsy;
      6.   Current or recent medications which thin the blood or interfere with
healing expectations; and
      7.   Any other information that would aid in evaluating the patron's
healing expectations.
   (B)   Prior to performing any body art procedure, the body art technician
shall obtain a release form signed by the patron confirming that the body art
technician obtained the information required by subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   The body art technician shall refuse to perform a body art procedure
if the patron refuses to disclose the information requested. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-
2007)
4-11-7: PERFORMANCE OF PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The body art technician shall at all times maintain a high degree of
personal cleanliness, conform to hygienic practices, wear clean clothes, and
keep his or her skin free of rash or infection.
   (B)   Before performing a body art procedure, the procedure surface shall be
washed with antiseptic liquid soap and water or an approved surgical skin
preparation. If shaving is necessary, a single use disposable razor shall be
used and then discarded. The reusable holder for the shaver, if any, shall be
sterilized. After shaving, the procedure surface shall be washed with
antiseptic liquid soap and water, and the washing pad shall be discarded.
   (C)   Immediately before performing a body art procedure on an individual,
the body art technician shall thoroughly wash his hands in hot running water
with antiseptic liquid soap or other sanitizing agent. The body art technician
shall then rinse his hands and dry them with disposable paper towels. This
process shall be done as many times as necessary to remove all contaminants
from the body art technician's hands. The body art technician shall also wash
his hands according to the method set forth herein at the conclusion of each
body art procedure.
   (D)   Body art technicians shall wear gloves on each hand during all body
art procedures. The body art technician shall wash his hands as provided in
subsection (C) of this section prior to putting on gloves. The gloves shall be
discarded after the completion of each body art procedure on an individual
patron. Under no circumstances shall the same gloves be used on more than one
person or for more than one body art procedure.
   (E)   If, prior to or while performing a body art procedure, the body art
technician's glove or gloves are pierced, torn or contaminated by contact with
any contaminated surface or object or by contact with a third person, the body
art technician shall immediately discard the gloves, repeat the hand washing
procedures described in subsection (C) of this section and put on a new pair of
gloves as described in subsection (D) of this section to complete the
procedure.
   (F)   If any equipment or instrument becomes contaminated during a body art
procedure, the body art procedure shall immediately be halted. The contaminated
instrument shall be replaced immediately with a sterilized instrument and the
contaminated equipment sanitized before the procedure may resume.
   (G)   After completing the body art procedure, the skin surface shall be
cleaned with an antiseptic liquid soap and allowed to dry. Sterile gauze
dressing shall then be fastened to the affected skin surface. The surface where
the body art procedure was performed, including any chairs or benches, shall be
cleaned and sanitized with liquid chemical germicide.
   (H)   Licensees shall comply at all times with the regulations of the
department of labor's occupational safety and health administration (29 CFR
1910.1030), as presently existing or hereafter amended, with respect to
occupational exposure to blood, bloodborne pathogens or other potentially
infectious materials. Said regulations are hereby incorporated into this
chapter by this reference. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-8: PATRON INSTRUCTIONS:
   (A)   Every person receiving a body art procedure shall be provided with
verbal and written instructions for aftercare of the body art procedure. The
instructions shall advise the patron of proper care for the healing of the body
specific to the body art procedure performed and to consult a physician at the
first sign of infection or swelling. The instructions shall include the name,
address and telephone number of the body art establishment and the name of the
body art technician who performed the body art procedure.
   (B)   The written instructions shall be signed and dated by both the patron
and the body art technician. The body art establishment shall retain a signed
original of the instructions and shall give a copy to the patron. (Ord. 2669,
12-3-2007)
4-11-9: RECORDS:
   (A)   The body art establishment shall keep a record of all body art
procedures performed. The record shall include: 1) the patron's name, date of
birth and address, 2) the date of the body art procedure, 3) the type and
location of each body art procedure performed and 4) the name of the body art
technician who performed each body art procedure. Signed copies of the release
form required by subsection
4-11-6(B) of this chapter and the instructions required by section
4-11-8 of this chapter shall also be kept. All records shall be available for
inspection by the city upon request.
   (B)   Records containing a patron's personal medical information shall be
kept confidential, except to the extent disclosure is necessary and authorized
by Illinois law in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   All records shall be retained by the body art establishment for at
least three (3) years. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-10: EQUIPMENT, INSTRUMENTS AND SUPPLIES:
   (A)   All equipment and instruments directly used in the performance of body
art procedures shall be specifically manufactured for this purpose and used
according to the manufacturer's instructions.
   (B)   Sterilized equipment, instruments and supplies shall be stored in
clean, dry, covered containers. No equipment, instruments or supplies that are
required to be sterilized shall be used if the package has been breached or the
expiration date has expired, without first repackaging and resterilizing the
equipment, instruments or supplies.
   (C)   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be disposable and discarded after a single use.
   (D)   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils, shall
be disposable and discarded after a single use, except that acetate stencils
shall be allowed for multiple use if disinfecting procedures are performed
between each use. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products used in the
application of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on the area to be
tattooed with sterile gauze or in a manner to prevent contamination of the
original container and its contents. The gauze shall be used only once and then
discarded.
   (E)   All inks, dyes, and pigments shall be specifically manufactured for
the performance of body art procedures and used according to the manufacturer's
instructions. The mixing of approved inks, dyes or pigments, or their dilution
with potable water, is acceptable. Immediately before applying a tattoo, the
quantity of the dye to be used shall be transferred from the dye bottle into
single use paper or plastic cups or caps. Upon completion of the tattoo, these
single use cups or caps and their contents shall be discarded.
   (F)   When assembling instruments, the body art technician shall wear gloves
and shall use medically recognized techniques to ensure that the instruments
and gloves are not contaminated.
   (G)   Single use items shall be discarded immediately after each use and
shall not be used with more than one patron for any reason.
   (H)   Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed with detergent and
dried after each use.
   (I)   The following process shall be followed after each use for all
instruments used for body art procedures that are not single use instruments:
      1.   The instrument shall be cleaned by following the manufacturer's
cleaning instructions. If there are no cleaning instructions, the instrument
shall be cleaned by scrubbing with an appropriate disinfectant and hot water to
remove blood and tissue residue.
      2.   The instrument shall be placed in an ultrasonic sterilizing unit,
which shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   The instrument shall be packed individually in a peel pack
containing either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature indicator and
sterilizer.
      4.   Peel packs shall be dated with an expiration date not to exceed six
(6) months. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-11: INSPECTION:
   (A)   Licensees shall be inspected as often as the city deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter. At a minimum, inspections shall be made at
least every three (3) months. The costs of inspection shall be paid by the body
art establishment.
   (B)   Inspections shall be made by persons chosen and paid for by the body
art establishment. Inspections shall be made by either: 1) a licensed
environmental health practitioner, 2) a registered nurse, or 3) a person with a
bachelor of science degree in nursing, none of whom may be an employee of the
body art establishment. Additionally, the persons conducting the inspections
shall have knowledge of the following:
      1.   Anatomy, skin diseases, disorders and conditions, including
diabetes.
      2.   Infectious disease control, including waste disposal and hand
washing.
      3.   Sanitizing, disinfecting and sterilization methods.
      4.   Operation of equipment and instruments.
   (C)   Immediately following an inspection, the person conducting the
inspection shall furnish the inspection report to the city clerk. The
inspection report shall state that the licensee is in compliance with this
chapter or, if not in compliance, the nature of any violations with reference
to specific section numbers. The person conducting the inspection shall also
furnish a copy to the licensee.
   (D)   The city may conduct inspections of any licensee at any time to ensure
compliance with this chapter. The person conducting an inspection on behalf of
the city shall be chosen and paid for by the city. In the event a licensee
fails to satisfy an inspection paid for by the city, the licensee shall be
required to reimburse the city for the costs of the inspection in addition to
any other penalties or fines set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   The person conducting an inspection shall identify himself upon
entering a body art establishment. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
4-11-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; PENALTIES:
   (A)   The mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter
for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States or
the state of Illinois relating in any way to the performance of body art
procedures, or any ordinance enacted by the city council.
      2.   The licensee has made a false statement as to any material fact on
its application for a license.
      3.   The licensee has permitted an unlawful, disorderly or immoral
practice within the body art establishment.
      4.   An agent or employee of the licensee has been found to have
committed any of the acts specified in subsections (A)1 through (A)3 of this
section.
   (B)   All hearings to determine whether a license shall be suspended or
revoked shall be conducted by the mayor. A notice of hearing shall be delivered
to the licensee by certified mail at the address listed in the licensee's
application at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing. The notice shall
specifically set forth the nature of the violation and the time and place of
the hearing. A certified court reporter shall be present and shall prepare an
official record of the proceedings. Within a reasonable time after the
conclusion of the hearing, but not later than ten (10) days after such
conclusion, the mayor shall file his written decision.
   (C)   If the conduct of a licensee constitutes a clear and present danger to
the public health, safety or general welfare, the mayor shall be authorized to
summarily suspend any license issued under this chapter until such time as a
hearing may be conducted. The mayor shall conduct a hearing within ten (10)
days of the suspension of a license pursuant to this subsection.
   (D)   All appeals from any decision of the mayor shall be reviewed pursuant
to the Illinois administrative review law.
   (E)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day that a
violation occurs or is permitted to continue shall be deemed a separate
violation. (Ord. 2669, 12-3-2007)
CHAPTER 12
WATER WELLS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Purpose
4-12-2: Acts Prohibited, Permits Required
4-12-3: Definitions
4-12-4: Permits
4-12-5: Inspection
4-12-6: Standard
4-12-7: Penalty For Violation
4-12-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides for the issuance of permits for well drilling,
construction, repair and modification of water wells for the reason that the
groundwater of the city will not be contaminated or polluted and that water
obtained from wells will not jeopardize the health, safety or welfare of the
people, and preserve the present water table level. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997)
4-12-2: ACTS PROHIBITED, PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person shall, within the city limits, be permitted to drill their own well
when said person's land is within two hundred feet (200') of the public water
supply. All well applications must be reviewed and approved by the city council
before a permit can be issued for same. (Ord. 2053, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2549,
10-3-2005)
4-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
CONSTRUCTION: Shall include, but not be limited to, the digging or excavating
of any water well.
MODIFICATION OR REPAIR: Shall include, but not be limited to, the deepening of
a well or the reperforation or replacement of a well casing.
WELL OR WATER WELL: Any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the
purpose of extracting water from, or injecting water into, the underground.
(Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997)
4-12-4: PERMITS:
   (A)   Applications: Applications for permits to construct, repair or modify
any water well shall be made to the building official of the city and shall
include the following:
      1.   A plot plan indicating the exact location of the well with respect
to the following items within a radius of two hundred feet (200') of the well:
         (a)   Public water lines.
         (b)   Public sewer lines.
         (c)   Property lines.
         (d)   Existing wells.
         (e)   Septic systems.
         (f)   Existing or proposed buildings.
         (g)   Access roads or streets.
      2.   Location of the property.
      3.   Owner of the property.
      4.   Name of the person who will construct, repair and/or modify the
well.
      5.   Depth of the well.
      6.   Use of the well.
      7.   Other information as may be necessary to determine if underground
waters will be protected.
   (B)   Fees:
      1.   Permit Application Fee:
         (a)   Every permit application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), none of which shall be refundable.
      2.   Permit Fee:
         (a)   Same fee schedule as listed in subsection
7-1-9(B)3 of this code. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997)
         (b)   Prior to issuance of a permit the person applying for a permit
shall appear before the Dixon city council for a review of the appropriate
ordinances of the city concerning public water supplies and for a review of the
information provided in the application for permit. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997; amd.
Ord. 2549, 10-3-2005)
   (C)   Expiration: Permits shall expire six (6) months from the issuance
date. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997; amd. 2020 Code)
4-12-5: INSPECTION:
The building official of the city and any water department employee may at any
and all reasonable times enter any and all places, property enclosures and
structures for the purpose of making examinations and investigations to
determine whether any provision of the codes of the city relating to the
drilling of wells and the public water supply are being violated. (Ord. 2006,
8-4-1997)
4-12-6: STANDARD:
Standards for the construction, repair and modification of water wells shall be
as provided for under appropriate state agencies, county agencies and state
law. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997)
4-12-7: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation who does any work for which a permit is
required by this chapter and who fails to apply for and pay the fee for a
permit, or who otherwise violates any other provision of this chapter, shall
upon conviction be fined an amount not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense in
accordance with the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2006, 8-4-1997; amd. 2020
Code)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC CAMPING
SECTION:
4-13-1: Public Camping Declared A Nuisance
4-13-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
4-13-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
4-13-4: Definitions
4-13-5: Public Camping Prohibited
4-13-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
4-13-7: Removal Of Campsite
4-13-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
4-13-9: Penalty; Mitigation
4-13-1: PUBLIC CAMPING A NUISANCE:
Public Camping, as the term is defined in this chapter, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance within the city for the reasons identified in Ordinance No. 3422
adopted November, 2024.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-2: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
In an effort to address the public health concerns identified in Ordinance No.
3422 adopted November, 2024, the city declares it necessary or expedient for
the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases to regulate Public
Camping, as that term is defined in this chapter, within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-3: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the city in any
subsequent ordinance, the city hereby declares that none of its property is
permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term is defined in
this chapter.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
 
BEDDING:                  A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for
                          bedding purposes.
                          Any physical space that is not within an established
                          structure, where Bedding or any stove or fire is
                          placed, established or maintained for the purpose of
CAMPSITE:                 maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not
                          such place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to,
                          shack or any other structure, or any vehicle or part
                          thereof.
                          Items which would otherwise constitute Personal
                          Property under the terms of this chapter, but which
                          (i) has no apparent utility or monetary value; (ii)
                          Personal Property which is unsanitary to store or
                          otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: illegally; (iv) drug paraphernalia; (v) items
                          appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
                          evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person
                          cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to
                          possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
                          reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish
                          within the next thirty (30) days.
                          Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
PERSONAL PROPERTY:        person and having apparent utility or monetary value,
                          except for Exempt Personal Property.
PUBLIC CAMPING:           To cause or participate in the establishment of, or
                          the act of remaining in or at, a Campsite.
 
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-5: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   (B)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   (C)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the City.
   (D)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the City for the purpose
of sleeping or otherwise engaging in Public Camping in said vehicle.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two (2) consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the City for the purpose of
Public Camping, for two (2) consecutive hours without permission from the city
council of the city, between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., shall be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter, it shall
not be a violation to engage in Public Camping when done (i) in a manner
specifically authorized by this code; (ii) after a formal declaration of the
city in emergency circumstances; or, (iii) upon resolution of the city council,
the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this chapter, if
the city council finds such exemption to be in the public interest and
consistent with the goals and objectives of the city council, and with such
conditions imposed as the city council deems necessary. Any conditions imposed
will include a condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the city for any liability,
damage or expense incurred by the city as a result of the activities of the
applicant. Any findings by the city council shall specify the exact dates and
location covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-7: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
   Removal of a Campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   Prior to removing a Campsite, the city shall post a notice, 24-hours
in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the Campsite is deemed
to be necessary for one of the reasons in subsection 1-4, below. If such
immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of
such Campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
      1.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
      2.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      3.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
      4.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the city and its residents.
   (B)   Upon any action pursuant to this section, the person(s) causing such
action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the city of the location of the Campsite
and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so said agency may
determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its services to those
persons.
   (C)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period has
passed, then the Campsite, as well as all Personal Property thereon, shall be
removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the city.
   (D)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in Public Camping from removing their Personal Property
from the Campsite; however, such Personal Property that constitutes Exempt
Personal Property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
Exempt Personal Property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-8: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   (A)   All Personal Property removed from any Campsite which is not Exempt
Personal Property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the city for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time it shall be
reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
   (B)   All Exempt Personal Property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the city.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
4-13-9: PENALTY; MITIGATION:
   (A)   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $75.
   (B)   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $150.
   (C)   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $350.
   (D)   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $500.
   (E)   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $750.
   (F)   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of $750 or incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time
allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-
2-9.
   (G)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to A-F,
above, and if consented to by the city, the penalty assessed to any person
found in violation of this chapter may be that said person must engage in
public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other public facilities of the
city for an amount of time that, if the person found to have violated this
chapter was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois law, the amount paid for
that person’s labors would have been equal to the monetary penalty assessed
under this chapter.
   (H)   he city is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it, at
law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
   (I)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
Personal Property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the Campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
   (J)   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (K)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this chapter may be immediately removed from the
premises where the Campsite is located.
(Ord. 3422, 11-18-20224)
TITLE 5
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Applications
5-1-2: Forms
5-1-3: Fees
5-1-4: Duration Of Licenses
5-1-5: Approval Of Licenses
5-1-6: Obedience To Regulations
5-1-7: Licenses Not Assignable
5-1-8: Posting And Exhibiting
5-1-9: Exemption
5-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for licenses and permits required by this code shall be made in
writing to the clerk in the absence of provision to the contrary. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid and shall contain such additional information as may be required herein.
If the applicant is a partnership the application shall be signed by all of the
partners. (1950 Code)
5-1-2: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor shall be furnished
by the clerk. (1950 Code)
5-1-3: FEES:
In the absence of provision to the contrary all fees and charges for licenses
and permits shall be paid in advance to the clerk at the time the application
is made, and when an applicant has not engaged in a business for which a
license is sought until after the expiration of a part of the current fiscal
year the license fees shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each
quarter or fraction thereof during which the business has been or will be
conducted. Except as otherwise provided all license fees shall become a part of
the general corporate fund. No licensee shall be entitled to a refund of any
portion of any license fee paid to the city by reason of the fact that he
ceases to conduct the business for which the license was granted prior to the
end of the term of the license. (1950 Code)
5-1-4: DURATION OF LICENSES:
No license shall be granted for a longer period than one year and all licenses
shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of the city. (1950 Code)
5-1-5: APPROVAL OF LICENSES:
All applications for licenses shall be referred to the mayor, council or local
liquor control commissioner for approval or disapproval where required by the
provisions of this code. Upon the approval of the application for any license,
where required, and the payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall
issue a license. Where the approval of the mayor, council or local liquor
commissioner is required, licenses shall be executed by the mayor in the name
of the city and attested by the clerk under the corporate seal and shall state
the name of the licensee, the time for which granted and any other information
that may be required. Where such approval is not required, the clerk shall
execute and issue licenses in the name of the city and under the corporate seal
thereof, and each license shall state the name of the licensee, the time for
which granted, and any other information that may be required. (1950 Code)
5-1-6: OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS:
All licenses which may be issued under any provision of this code shall be
subject to the regulations which may be in force at the time of the issuing
thereof, or which may subsequently be established by the council. If any person
so licensed shall violate any of the provisions thereof, he shall be liable to
be proceeded against for any fine or penalty imposed thereby, and his license
shall be subject to be revoked by the council, unless otherwise provided in
this chapter. (1950 Code)
5-1-7: LICENSES NOT ASSIGNABLE:
Except as otherwise provided, no license granted under this chapter or any
other provision of this code shall be assignable or transferable without
permission of the council, nor shall any such license authorize any person to
do business or act under it but the person named therein. (1950 Code)
5-1-8: POSTING AND EXHIBITING:
Any person having obtained a license shall, when demanded by any officer of the
city, forthwith exhibit the same to such officer and if the business of the
licensee be local he shall immediately upon the receipt of his license cause
the same to be and remain posted in some conspicuous place in his business
establishment and if any such licensee shall fail or refuse to exhibit his
license when demanded as aforesaid, or neglect or refuse to post the same as
herein required, he shall be subject to the general penalty regulation of this
code. (1950 Code)
5-1-9: EXEMPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to licenses required for
animals. (1950 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
5-2-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
5-2-3: Municipal Utility Tax
5-2-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
Commencing July 1, 2005, a nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax of
one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city of
Dixon. Such tax shall not apply to the sale of an item of tangible personal
property which is titled and registered by an agency of the state of Illinois;
the sale of prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, and medical
appliances; the sale of insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles
used by diabetics; or the sale of food for human consumption that is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold, other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption. (Ord.
2507, 11-15-2004)
5-2-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
Commencing July 1, 2005, a nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax of
one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
within the city of Dixon in the business of making sales of service on the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen
or servicewomen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form
of real estate as an incident to a sale of service. Such tax shall not apply to
the sale of prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, and medical
appliances; the sale of insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles
used by diabetics; or the sale of food for human consumption that is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold, other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption. (Ord.
2507, 11-15-2004)
5-2-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   (A)   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity, at the rate of three and one-half percent (31/2%) of the gross
receipts from such business originating within the corporate limits of the
city.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of three and one-half percent (31/
2%) of the gross receipts therefrom.
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the city and not for resale, at the rate of three and one-half
percent (31/2%) of the gross receipts therefrom.
   (B)   Exemptions: No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 of the "municipal
retailers' occupation tax act" of the Illinois municipal code, as amended.
   (C)   Tax Additional Payment: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment
of money, or value of products or services furnished to this municipality by
the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business. (Ord. 1383, 10-5-1987)
   (D)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or electricity, for
use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services, and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever. "Gross receipts" shall not include receipts received
from the city of Dixon for the sale to said municipality of any of the utility
products or services mentioned above.
Gross receipts shall not include charges added to customers' bills to recover
the surcharge imposed under the emergency telephone system act. For utility
bills issued on or after May 1, 1996, but before May 1, 1997, and for receipts
from those utility bills, "gross receipts" shall not include one-third (1/3)
of: 1) amounts added to customers' bills under section 9-222 of the public
utilities act, or 2) amounts added to customers' bills by taxpayers who are not
subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce commission for the purpose
of recovering any of the tax liabilities described in section 9-222 of the
public utilities act. For utility bills issued on or after May 1, 1997, but
before May 1, 1998, and for receipts from those utility bills, "gross receipts"
shall not include two-thirds (2/3) of: 3) amounts added to customers' bills
under section 9-222 of the public utilities act, or 4) amount added to
customers' bills by taxpayers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
Illinois commerce commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities described in section 9-222 of the public utilities act. For utility
bills issued on or after May 1, 1998, and for receipts from those utility
bills, "gross receipts" shall not include: 5) amounts added to customers' bills
under section 9-222 of the public utilities act, or 6) amounts added to
customers' bills by taxpayers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
Illinois commerce commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities described in section 9-222 of the public utilities act.
   PERSONS: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages. (Ord. 1383, 10-5-1987; amd.
Ord. 1954, 9-3-1996)
   (E)   Effective Date: This chapter shall take effect after publication and
the tax provided for herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein
defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after December
1, 1987. (Ord. 1383, 10-5-1987)
   (F)   Filing Tax Return: On or before the last day of January, 1988, the
taxpayers described in subsection (A) of this section shall make a return of
the city treasurer for the month of December, 1987. Said returns shall state:
      1.   Taxpayer's name;
      2.   Taxpayer's principal place of business;
      3.   Taxpayer's gross receipts during those months upon which the basis
of the tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a
like return to the city treasurer for a corresponding one month period.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the city treasurer, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord.
1385, 10-13-1987)
   (G)   Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this chapter from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   (H)   Recover Tax Due: No action to recover any amount of tax due under the
provisions of this chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after
the due date of such amount.
   (I)   Failure To Pay Tax; Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return,
or who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision
of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due.
   (J)   Copy Sent To Utilities; Publication: The clerk shall send a certified
copy of this chapter to the utilities involved, and is directed to publish this
chapter in pamphlet form. (Ord. 1383, 10-5-1987)
CHAPTER 3
AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
5-3-1: License Required
5-3-2: Auction Clerk
5-3-3: (Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
5-3-4: Street Sales Prohibited
5-3-5: Substitutions Prohibited
5-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All sales of real or personal property at public auction within the city,
except such as may be made under order of any court or by virtue of legal
process, or sales to satisfy a lien, shall be made by a person licensed as
hereinafter provided. (1950 Code)
5-3-2: AUCTION CLERK:
No person acting as a clerk at a public auction shall be required to be
licensed. (1950 Code)
5-3-3: (Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
5-3-4: STREET SALES PROHIBITED:
No property shall be sold or exposed for sale at auction in any public street
or alley in the city, and all auctions shall be so conducted that no portion of
the bidders or bystanders will be compelled to stand or remain on the street or
sidewalk so as to obstruct the free travel thereon. (1950 Code)
5-3-5: SUBSTITUTIONS PROHIBITED:
Any auctioneer who shall exhibit or offer for sale at auction any article of
personal property, and sell it to any bidder, and who shall afterwards
substitute any article in lieu of that offered and sold to the bidder, shall
forfeit his license and be subject to the general penalty provisions of this
code 1 . (1950 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1.
CHAPTER 4
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Tax Or License Fee
5-4-2: Annual Payment
5-4-3: Agent To Report
5-4-4: Nonpayment
5-4-5: Expenditure Of Funds
5-4-1: TAX OR LICENSE FEE:
All companies not incorporated under the laws of this state and which are
engaged in effecting fire insurance in the city shall pay to the treasurer of
the foreign fire insurance board for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
fire department thereof, a sum equal to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts
received by the companies or their agency or agents as premiums for fire
insurance on property located within the city. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
5-4-2: ANNUAL PAYMENT:
The companies shall pay to the treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board on
July 15 of each year a sum equal to the foregoing rate specified in section
5-4-1 of this chapter. The sum herein named shall be a license fee upon all
such companies transacting business within the city and shall be paid to the
treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the fire department of the city. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
5-4-3: AGENT TO REPORT:
Each person who shall act in the city as agent or otherwise, for or on behalf
of any such company shall, on or before July 15 of each year, render to the
treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board, a full, true and just account,
verified by his oath, of all the premiums which, during the year ending on each
July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or any other
person for him in behalf of any such company and shall specify in the report
the amounts received for fire insurance. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
5-4-4: NONPAYMENT:
If such account be not rendered on or before the day herein designated for that
purpose, or if the rates shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be
unlawful for any company so in default to transact any business of insurance in
the city until the requisitions shall have been fully complied with; but this
provision shall not relieve any company from the payment of any risk that may
be taken in violation hereof. (1950 Code)
5-4-5: EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS:
All monies received by the treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board under
the provisions of this chapter shall be appropriated to be used for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the department 1 . (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1.
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO
SECTION:
5-5-1: Council Findings And Declaration
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: License Required
5-5-4: Application For License; Fee
5-5-5: Location Restrictions
5-5-6: Prohibitions
5-5-7: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
5-5-8: Vending Machines; Locking Devices
5-5-9: Administration And Enforcement
5-5-10: Penalty
5-5-1: COUNCIL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION:
The Mayor and City Council expressly find and declare that:
   (A)   Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health.
   (B)   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of tobacco
products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical disorders.
   (C)   The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country.
   (D)   The Director of the National Institute On Drug Abuse concluded that
the majority of the 320,000 Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking
became addicted to nicotine as adolescents before the age of legal consent.
   (E)   The National Institute On Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking
precedes and may be predictive of adolescent illicit drug use. (Ord. 1885, 6-
19-1995)
   (F)   The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco
products to persons under the age of twenty one (21) years has proven
ineffective in preventing such persons from using tobacco products.
   (G)   The enactment of this chapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the City,
particularly those residents under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord.
3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ADULT-ONLY FACILITY: A facility or restricted area (whether open-air or
enclosed) where the operator ensures or has a reasonable basis to believe (such
as by checking identification as required under State law or by checking the
identification of any person appearing to be under the age of 30) that no
person under twenty one (21) years of age is present. A facility or restricted
area need not be permanently restricted to persons under twenty one (21) years
of age to constitute an adult-only facility, provided that the operator ensures
or has a reasonable basis to believe that no person under twenty one (21) years
of age is present during the event or time in question.
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" does not
include: cigarettes as defined in section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act and
tobacco products as defined in section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of
1995; tobacco product and electronic cigarette as defined in this section; or
any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale
as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE: (A) Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism
to heat a solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for
inhalation;
   (B)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be
used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
   (C)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device.
"Electronic cigarette" includes, but is not limited to, any electronic nicotine
delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any components
or parts that can be used to build the product or device. "Electronic
cigarette" does not include: cigarettes as defined in section 1 of the
Cigarette Tax Act and tobacco products as defined in section 10-5 of the
Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995; tobacco product and alternative nicotine
product as defined in this section; any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler
prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose; or any therapeutic product approved for use
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
NICOTINE: Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. "Tobacco product" includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. "Tobacco product" does not
include: an electronic cigarette and alternative nicotine product as defined in
this section; or any product that has been approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approved purpose.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self- service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco product, alternative nicotine product or electronic cigarette. (Ord.
3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, to give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or
delivering tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine
product within the City without having first obtained a tobacco dealer's
license therefor pursuant to this chapter. Such license shall be in addition to
any other license required by this Code. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   (A)   Application for a license hereunder shall be made, in writing, to the
City Clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of chapter
1 of this title. (Ord. 1885, 6-19-1995)
   (B)   The annual license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 3001, 3-14-2016)
5-5-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco product, electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product
within one hundred feet (100') of any school, childcare facility or other
building used for education or recreational programs for persons under the age
of twenty one (21) years. The distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for educational or
recreational programs and not to property boundaries. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-2019,
eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-6: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy any tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product. No person shall
sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to any person under twenty one (21)
years of age.
   (B)   No person under sixteen (16) years of age may sell tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product at a retail establishment
selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products. This subsection does not apply to a sales clerk in a family-owned
business which can prove that the sales clerk is in fact a son or daughter of
the owner.
   (C)   Before selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing a tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to another
person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing the
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product shall
verify that the person is at least twenty one (21) years of age by:
      1.   Examining from any person that appears to be under thirty (30) years
of age a government-issued photographic identification that establishes the
person to be twenty one (21) years of age or older; or
      2.   For sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products made through the internet or other remote sales methods,
performing an age verification through an independent, third party age
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the person during the ordering process that
establishes the person is twenty one (21) years of age or older.
   (D)   No person under twenty one (21) years of age in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product shall display or use a false or forged
identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification card.
   (E)   The sale or distribution by any person of a tobacco product as defined
in this chapter, including but not limited to a single or loose cigarette, that
is not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as provided by the
manufacturer, which container, pack, or package bears the health warning
required by Federal law, is prohibited. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-7: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person to distribute without
charge samples of any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative
nicotine product sample to any other person, regardless of age, except when
distributed to persons twenty one (21) years of age and older while in an
adult-only facility. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-8: VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES:
   (A)   Tobacco product, electronic cigarette, and alternative nicotine
product may be sold through a vending machine only if such tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, and alternative nicotine product are not placed together
with any non-tobacco product, other than matches, in the vending machine and
the vending machine is in any of the following locations:
      1.   Places to which persons under twenty one (21) years of age are not
permitted access at any time; and
      2.   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises and vending machine operation is under the direct supervision of the
owner or manager.
   (B)   Each vending machine shall be equipped with a manual, electric or
electronic locking device controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its
operation by persons under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-
2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
5-5-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Administration: The Mayor shall be charged with the administration of
this chapter. (Ord. 1885, 6-19-1995)
   (B)   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Mayor may suspend or revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions thereof or upon the licensee's
conviction or guilty plea under section 3 of the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/3. (Ord. 3117, 11-19-2018)
   (C)   Fine In Lieu Of Suspension Or Revocation: In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a license, the Mayor may, instead, levy a fine on the licensee.
The fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (D)   Hearing; Decisions; Fees:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: No such license shall be suspended or revoked and
no licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Mayor with a
seven (7) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend against the charges contained in such notice.
The seven (7) day notice provisions shall begin the day following delivery by
certified mail or by personal service.
      2.   Mayor's Decision: The Mayor shall, within seven (7) days after such
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked
or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such
determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of such
order within the seven (7) days upon the licensee.
      3.   Fees:
         (a)   Any licensee determined by the Mayor to have violated any of the
provisions of this chapter shall pay to the City the costs of the hearing
before the Mayor on such violation. The Mayor shall determine the costs
incurred by the City for said hearing, including, but not limited to, court
reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of
preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses
incurred by the City or such lesser sum as the Mayor may allow.
         (b)   The licensee shall pay said costs to the City within thirty (30)
days of notification of the costs by the Mayor. Failure to pay said costs
within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter and may
be cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy of a fine.
   (E)   Use Of Premises After License Revocation: When any license shall have
been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for
the period of six (6) months thereafter for the conduct of the business of
selling "tobacco products", as defined in section
5-5-2 of this chapter in the premises described in such revoked license.
   (F)   Responsibility Of Licensee For Agents And Employees: Every act of
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of
any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee and such
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had
been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 1885, 6-19-1995; amd.
2020 Code)
5-5-10: PENALTY:
In addition to the provisions of section
5-5-9 of this chapter, any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 3149, 7-1-2019, eff. 7-
1-2019)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Permit Required
5-6-2: Application For Permit; Bond
5-6-3: Issuance Of Permit
5-6-4: Regulations
5-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move any building into or upon the streets, alleys or other
public places of the city without first obtaining a written permit and filing a
bond as hereinafter provided. (1950 Code)
5-6-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; BOND:
Any person desiring to move a building shall file with the clerk an application
setting forth the size of the building to be moved, its present location, its
proposed new location, the route over which it is proposed to be moved, and the
date or dates on which it shall be moved, and shall file a bond with the clerk
in the penal sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each
building to be moved, with surety to be approved by the mayor, which bond shall
be conditioned to indemnify the city from all loss and damage occasioned by the
moving, and to ensure the repair or replacing of streets, sidewalks, paving and
public property disturbed or damaged by such moving. (1950 Code; amd. 2020
Code)
5-6-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon the receipt by the clerk of such application and bond the clerk shall
immediately submit the application and bond to the mayor. The mayor shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the receipt of the same, approve the route
proposed or specify another route and shall approve or disapprove the bond, and
shall return to the clerk the application with any change of route determined
by him with his approval, and the bond with his approval or disapproval. When
the bond has been approved by the mayor, the clerk shall issue to the applicant
a permit to move the building. The permit shall specify the route approved by
the mayor, and the time fixed for the moving. (1950 Code)
5-6-4: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   No building shall be moved over any route which necessitates the
cutting or damaging or removal of any trees, wires, poles or other private
property, without the giving by the applicant of proper bonds to the owners of
such trees, wires, poles or other private property, or the making of other
proper or satisfactory arrangements for the indemnification of such owners from
loss or damage occasioned thereby.
   (B)   No trees on the route of moving shall be cut, damaged or removed
without the written consent of the mayor and the issuance of a permit shall not
be construed as permission to cut, damage or remove any privately owned trees.
The mayor shall not consent to the cutting, damaging or removal of any trees
without the written consent of the owner of the premises upon which the tree is
situated.
   (C)   At any time before or during the time the building is moved the mayor
may direct that the route be changed and the clerk shall notify the holder of
the permit of the direction by notice in writing.
   (D)   The holder of such permit shall place and maintain signal lights at
each corner of the building being moved and upon any equipment used in moving
it which remains upon any street, sidewalk or other public property during the
night.
   (E)   No person to whom a permit has been issued shall move the building
over any but the route approved or directed by the mayor or during any time
other than that specified in the permit; provided however, that when such
moving is delayed by a cause not under the control of the holder of the permit,
the clerk shall issue an additional permit allowing a specified further time
for the completion of such moving. (1950 Code)
CHAPTER 7
JUNK DEALERS
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 8
STREET VENDORS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Findings And Purpose
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: License Required
5-8-4: Applications
5-8-5: Issuance
5-8-6: Fees; Term
5-8-7: Display Of License
5-8-8: Advertising
5-8-9: Renewal
5-8-10: Revocation Of License
5-8-11: Appeal
5-8-12: Penalty
5-8-13: Separability
5-8-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
It is found and declared that:
   (A)   The primary purpose of the public streets and sidewalks is for use by
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Vending on the public streets and sidewalks promotes the public
interest by contributing to an active and attractive pedestrian environment.
   (C)   Reasonable regulation of street and sidewalk vending is necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
   (D)   The regulations contained in this chapter shall not be construed to
prohibit or inhibit any activities or speech not involving any form of request
for money or other article of value, including, but not limited to, speech of a
political or religious nature. (Ord. 2833, 7-18-2011)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle used for displaying, storing or transporting of
articles offered for sale by a vendor which is required to be licensed and
registered by the department of motor vehicles.
STAND: Any table, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon or any other wheeled
vehicle or device which may be moved without the assistance of a motor and
which is not required to be licensed and registered by the department of motor
vehicles, used for the displaying, storing or transporting of articles offered
for sale by a vendor.
STREET VENDOR: Any person engaged in the selling or offering for sale, of food,
beverages, or merchandise in any public place, from a stand, motor vehicle or
from his or her person. For purposes of this chapter, "public place" means any
street, sidewalk, park, alley, dedicated public right of way or any other
public property owned or controlled by the city or any other governmental
entity. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983; amd. Ord. 2833, 7-18-2011)
5-8-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, any food, beverage or
merchandise on any street or sidewalk within the city without first obtaining a
license therefor. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-4: APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Application Requirements: Applicants for permits and licenses under
this chapter must file with the city clerk a sworn application in writing (in
duplicate) on a form to be furnished by the city clerk, which shall give the
following information:
      1.   The name, home and business address of the applicant, and the name
and address of the owner, if other than the applicant, of the vending business,
stand or motor vehicle to be used in the operation of the vending business.
      2.   A description of the type of food, beverage or merchandise to be
sold.
      3.   A description of the proposed location of the vending business,
except that vendors from motor vehicles shall describe the general area in
which they propose to vend, if less than the entire city.
      4.   The retailers' occupation tax registration number of the applicant
or the business, if other than the applicant.
      5.   A twenty five dollar ($25.00) license fee. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
   (B)   Exceptions To License Requirement: The provisions of section
5-8-3 of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   To any person or entity organized and operated exclusively for
religious or charitable purposes and not operated for the pecuniary profit of
any person or organization if the sales by such persons or organization are
conducted by the person or members of any organization, without remuneration
and the proceeds from such sales will be used for charitable or religious
purposes;
      2.   To programs which would otherwise qualify, but which are sponsored
by any other municipal authority, including, but not limited to, county,
school, park or township authorities;
      3.   To any person selling farm produce, craft goods, or other wares at a
site designated by the city during designated times in the course of a
community enterprise commonly referred to as a "farmers' market". (Ord. 2833,
7-18-2011; amd. 2020 Code)
5-8-5: ISSUANCE:
   (A)   The city clerk shall issue a license upon payment of the prescribed
license fee as provided in section
5-8-6 of this chapter. The city clerk shall keep a full record in her office of
all licenses issued. Such license shall contain the number of the license, the
date the same is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried
on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of said license,
and the name or names of the person or persons authorized to carry on the same.
(Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-6: FEES; TERM:
   (A)   Each license, whenever issued, shall be for the then current fiscal
year, and will expire on the next following April 30 after issuance.
   (B)   The license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for all or any
part of each fiscal year. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall be displayed at all times during the operation of the
vending business. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-8: ADVERTISING:
No advertising, except the posting of prices, shall be permitted on any stand
or motor vehicle, except to identify the name of the product or the name of the
vendor. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-9: RENEWAL:
All licenses are valid for the entire licensing period unless revoked or
suspended prior to expiration. An application to renew a license shall be made
not later than thirty (30) days before the expiration of the current license.
(Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the mayor of the city after notice of hearing, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
street vending. (Ord. 2833, 7-18-2011)
      3.   Any violation of this chapter, or any violation of the city's
traffic, parking or public safety ordinances or regulations. For such purpose
the chief of police may issue such reasonable regulations as may be required to
protect pedestrian and vehicular traffic from interference by vendors. (Ord.
1200, 10-5-1983)
      4.   Conducting the business of street vending in an unlawful manner
under local, state, or federal law, or in such manner as to violate the lawful
regulations hereunder, or to constitute a breach of the peace, or to constitute
a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public. (Ord. 2833,
7-18-2011)
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his last known address at least seven (7) days prior to the date set for
hearing. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-11: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the mayor in the denial of an application
for license as provided in section
5-8-5 of this chapter, or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a
license as provided in section
5-8-10 of this chapter, shall have the right of appeal to the council of the
city. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the council, within fourteen
(14) days after notice of the decision complained of has been mailed to such
person's last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The council shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the
same manner as provided in section
5-8-10 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
5-8-12: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each such violation.
   (B)   In any case in which an offense is of a continuing nature, each day
such violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation, and shall
subject the person so violating such provision to a separate fine for each such
day. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983; amd. 2020 Code)
5-8-13: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions. (Ord. 1200, 10-5-1983)
CHAPTER 8A
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
SECTION:
5-8A-1: Definitions
5-8A-2: License Required
5-8A-3: Application For License
5-8A-4: Issuance
5-8A-5: Fees
5-8A-6: Possession Of License
5-8A-7: Renewal
5-8A-8: Revocation Of License
5-8A-9: Appeal
5-8A-10: Restrictions Applicable To All Door To Door Solicitation
5-8A-11: Penalty
5-8A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the indicated meanings:
CHARITABLE: Shall mean and include the words charitable, benevolent,
philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: A charitable organization as that term is defined
under 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/1, or a not for profit organization
incorporated under 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 110/0.01 and/or 110/35, or
any other organization that has been granted tax exempt status from the State
of Illinois or from the Internal Revenue Service.
CHARITABLE PURPOSE: A charitable purpose as that term is defined in 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/1. For purposes of this chapter, solicitation
for a charitable purpose shall include a solicitation for or on behalf of a
"charitable organization", as that term is defined herein.
COMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The sale, or seeking to obtain orders for
the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of any kind,
character or description, for any kind of consideration whatsoever, either for
immediate or future delivery, by means of in person contact or attempted
contact with City residents at their residences.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: Shall mean and include "commercial door to door
solicitation" as defined herein, and door to door, in person requests for
money, credit, or any other items of value for a religious, charitable, or
political purpose.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure and the yard, curtilage, or grounds upon which such
structure is located. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
5-8A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to engage in commercial
door to door solicitation in the City of Dixon without first securing a license
as herein provided. If an organization employs or otherwise engages one or more
individuals for such activities, each such individual and the organization
shall be required to separately apply and be licensed hereunder. (Ord. 3131, 4-
1-2019)
5-8A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   Application Requirements: The application for a license under this
section shall be made under oath upon a form provided by the Chief of Police.
Each original application shall be completed in full by the applicant and shall
set forth the following information: (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
      1.   The name, home and business address, date of birth, sex and a
physical description of the individual applicant, including, but not limited
to, height, weight, hair color, and eye color; the name, address, telephone
number, and email address of the organization applicant and the name, telephone
number, and email address of each of the organization applicant's officers,
directors, and owners; (Ord. 3131, 4-1-2019)
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person, firm,
corporation association or organization by whom the applicant is employed or
represents, and the length of time of such employment or representation;
      3.   A description of the business, merchandise, wares, or services of
the applicant;
      4.   The period of time/dates for which the license is applied for; (Ord.
2834, 7-18-2011)
      5.   The date(s) of all previous application(s), including all previous
applications submitted by individuals employed by or otherwise soliciting on
behalf of an organization applicants, under any name, current or former, for
license under this section;
      6.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this section,
including a license granted to an individual employed by or otherwise
soliciting on behalf of an organization applicant, under any name, current or
former, has ever been revoked;
      7.   Whether the applicant, or any individual having obtained a license
under this section while in the employ or otherwise soliciting on behalf of an
organization applicant, under any name, current or former, has ever been
convicted of a violation of any provisions of this section, or the ordinance of
any other municipality or any Illinois Statute regulating such activities;
      8.   Whether the applicant, or any individual having obtained a license
under this section or under a similar provision of any other municipality or
Illinois Statute while in the employ or otherwise soliciting on behalf of an
organization applicant, under any name, current or former, has ever been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of any state or under
Federal law, and if so, the offense and date of conviction; (Ord. 3131, 4-1-
2019)
      9.   Documentary evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit for
the organization represented;
      10.   The number and description of vehicles used, if any, including
make, model, color, and license plate number of all such vehicles; (Ord. 2834,
7-18-2011)
      11.   Documentary evidence that the organization applicant is authorized
to do business in the State of Illinois by proof of registration with the
Illinois Office of the Secretary of State. (Ord. 3131, 4-1-2019)
   (B)   Records Of Application: The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in
his or her office an accurate record of every application received and acted
upon, together with all information and data pertaining thereto and all
licenses issued under the provisions of this section, and of the denial of any
applications. The Chief of Police shall review any applications for licensure
under this section and notify the City Clerk if such license should be issued,
within ten (10) days of receipt of the application. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
   (C)   Denial Of License:
      1.   Individuals: No license shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois
or of any other state or Federal law within five (5) years of the date of the
application, or who has been found to be in violation of any of the provisions
of this section or whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked,
or who submits an incomplete or inaccurate application.
      2.   Organizations: No license shall be issued to any organization which
has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or of any other state or Federal law within five (5) years of the date
of the application, or which has been, or the employees or individuals
otherwise soliciting on behalf of which have been, found to be in violation of
any of the provisions of this section or to which the licenses issued
hereunder, to the organization or those individuals in its employ or otherwise
soliciting on its behalf, have previously been revoked, or which submits an
incomplete or inaccurate application. (Ord. 3131, 4-1-2019)
   (D)   Exceptions To License Requirement: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Solicitation by or on behalf of a charitable organization that is
currently registered with the Attorney General of the State of Illinois and is
in full compliance with the provisions of an Act to Regulate Solicitation and
Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes
460/1 et seq., or is exempt from registration with the Attorney General
pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/3(b);
      2.   Any solicitation made on premises owned or occupied by the person or
organization on behalf of whom the solicitation is made, or by permission of
such owner or occupant;
      3.   The provisions contained in this chapter shall not be construed to
prohibit or inhibit any activities or speech not involving any form of request
for money or other article of value, including, but not limited to, speech of a
political or religious nature.
   (E)   Non-Refundable Deposit: The application shall be accompanied by
payment of a non-refundable deposit in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00)
for the organization and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each individual for whom a
license is sought. If the application is approved, said deposit shall be
applied toward the prescribed license fee due under section
5-8A-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 3086, 3-19-2018)
5-8A-4: ISSUANCE:
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue a license upon approval of the application
by the Chief of Police and payment of the prescribed license fee as provided in
section
5-8A-5 of this chapter. The City Clerk shall keep a full record of all licenses
issued. Such record shall contain the number of the license, the date of
issuance, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of
the license fee paid, the expiration date of said license, and the name or
names of the person or persons authorized to carry on such solicitation. Every
license shall be for a maximum term of thirty (30) days, unless the license, by
its terms, expires earlier. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
5-8A-5: FEES:
   (A)   1. In General: The license fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for
the first day and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day thereafter. The charge
for the daily fee may be extended for a set period of days not to exceed thirty
(30) days and shall be paid in advance at the time of issuance of the license.
      2.   Exemption: Individuals who represent an organization which has
maintained a physical office, store or service center within the corporate
limits of the City for the previous twelve (12) months shall be exempt from the
subsequent twenty dollar ($20.00) daily fee.
      3.   Criminal History Background Fees: In addition to the above stated
license fee, each application shall be accompanied by a fee covering the then
current fee amount charged by the Illinois State Police, Bureau of
Identification for the processing of State and FBI criminal history background
checks. (Ord. 2970, 6-15-2015; amd. Ord. 3170, 10-21-2019)
5-8A-6: POSSESSION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be upon the person of the licensee
at all times during the operation of such solicitation, and shall, upon request
of a law enforcement officer, display the license to said officer. (Ord. 2834,
7-18-2011)
5-8A-7: RENEWAL:
All licenses are valid for the entire licensing period unless revoked or
suspended prior to expiration, as provided in this chapter. An application to
renew a license under this section shall be made not later than five (5) days
before the expiration of the current license. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
5-8A-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Mayor of the City, after notice of hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement or statements made in
the course of carrying on business;
      3.   Any violation of this section, or any violation of the City's
Traffic, Parking, or Public Safety Ordinances or regulations, or otherwise
conducting business in an unlawful manner under local, State or Federal law, or
in such manner as to violate the regulations issued hereunder, or in a manner
so as to constitute a breach of the peace, or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license issued hereunder
shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint
and the time and place for hearing. Such notice shall be delivered in person to
the licensee or mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at the address shown
on the application, at least seven (7) days prior to the date set for hearing.
   (C)   Licenses issued to organizations under the provisions of this chapter
may be revoked by the Mayor of the City, after notice of hearing and an
opportunity to be heard, for any of the forgoing causes, whether resulting from
the conduct of the organization itself or that of its employees or those
individuals soliciting on the organization's behalf. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011;
amd. Ord. 3131, 4-1-2019)
5-8A-9: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police in the denial of an
application, or in the decision of the Mayor with reference to the revocation
of a license shall have the right of appeal to the Council of the City. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within seven (7) days after
notice of the decision complained of has been mailed to the person's address
listed on the application, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds
and/or basis for the appeal. The Council shall set a time and place for a
hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
appellant in the same manner as provided in subsection
5-8A-8(B) of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011)
5-8A-10: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To engage in solicitation upon any premises or residence located
thereon if such premises or residence is posted against solicitation by signage
bearing the words "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors", or any
other similar notice indicating that the occupant or occupants of such premises
or residence desire not to be disturbed or to have their rights of privacy
disturbed, unless such solicitation has been specifically requested by the
owner or occupant of such premises.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any residence
or nonresidential premises for the purpose of conducting any form of
solicitation at any time after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. or before nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. on any Monday through Saturday, or at any time on Sunday, or at any
time on any holiday recognized by the State of Illinois, unless such
solicitation has been requested by the owner or occupant of such premises.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting any form of
solicitation at any residence or nonresidential premises to fail to immediately
leave such premises, and/or to fail to immediately cease conducting such
solicitation at such residence or nonresidential premises upon receiving from
any person in charge of said premises or an occupant thereof, a request to
leave or to cease solicitation. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 3131, 4-1-
2019)
5-8A-11: PENALTY:
   (A)   A person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, including
those offenses enumerated in subsection
5-8A-8(A) of this chapter, shall be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
   (B)   In any case in which an offense is of a continuing nature, each day
such violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation, and shall
subject the person so violating such provision to a separate fine for each such
day. (Ord. 2834, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 3131, 4-1-2019)
CHAPTER 9
SECONDHAND STORES
(Rep. by Ord. 1926, 4-1-1996)
CHAPTER 10
(Rep. by Ord. 435, 11-2-1964)
CHAPTER 11
TAXICABS 1
SECTION:
5-11-1: License Required
5-11-2: Application For License; Requirements For Issuance Of License
5-11-3: License Fee
5-11-4: License Nontransferable; Renewal
5-11-5: Revocation Of License
5-11-6: Fares To Be Posted
5-11-7: Number Of Passengers
5-11-8: Seating Arrangements; Alteration Prohibited
5-11-9: (Rep. by Ord. 815, 5-19-1975)
5-11-10: Amendment Of Regulations
5-11-11: Exceptions
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-6.
5-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle for carrying passengers for hire in the
city without having first secured a license for the vehicle as hereinafter
provided. (1950 Code)
5-11-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the city clerk and shall include the full name and address of the
owner, the make and type of vehicle used, the vehicle identification number,
the state of Illinois license number of the vehicle, the seating capacity of
the vehicle according to its trade rating, and the length in time the vehicle
has been in use. The application shall be referred to the city council and,
upon its approval and payment of the license fee, the city clerk shall issue
the license. In no event shall more than four (4) major or first licenses be
issued by the city, as it is intended to limit the number of taxicab companies
operating in the city to four (4). (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
   (B)   No license shall be granted unless the applicant presents proof of the
following:
      1.   There is in effect, and the applicant shall keep in effect at all
times, public liability and property damage insurance with solvent and
responsible insurers, in amounts as required by the Illinois secretary of
state, to secure the payment of any loss or damage which may result from any
occurrence arising out of the operation, use or possession of any vehicle
licensed under this chapter;
      2.   The applicant, or any person who will be allowed to drive the
vehicle, has not, for a period of five (5) years preceding the date of the
application, been convicted of a felony or of reckless driving or driving under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or any similar offense. Proof may
be by sworn affidavit; and
      3.   The applicant, or any person who will be allowed to drive the
vehicle, must be properly licensed by the state of Illinois. (Ord. 3000, 2-16-
2016)
5-11-3: LICENSE FEE:
An annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), payable to the city clerk,
shall be charged at the time of the application for a license for each vehicle
and at the time of any renewal of such license. (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
5-11-4: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE; RENEWAL:
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter shall not be transferable.
   (B)   The city clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued under this
chapter, when and to whom issued, and the date of expiration or revocation. All
licenses shall expire on April 1 of each year after issued, and to obtain a
renewal, application therefor shall comply with all the provisions of this
chapter. Licenses issued prior to August 17, 2015, shall remain in effect until
April 1, 2016, unless otherwise revoked hereunder. (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
5-11-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor may revoke a license issued under this chapter upon any of the
following:
   (A)   The facts stated in any application for license are false in any
material way;
   (B)   The licensee or any operator of a vehicle licensed under this chapter
violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   The licensee or any operator of a vehicle licensed under this chapter
permitted the operation of a vehicle licensed under this chapter while such
vehicle was not in proper mechanical condition for safe and convenient
operation, while such vehicle was not in a clean and sanitary condition or
while such vehicle was not equipped and functioning as required by state of
Illinois statutes;
   (D)   The licensee permitted the operation of any motor vehicle licensed
hereunder by any individual prohibited by this chapter from engaging in such
operation; or
   (E)   The licensee or any operator of a vehicle licensed under this chapter
has been convicted of repeated violations of traffic laws or city ordinances
regulating the conduct of drivers.
In the event of a revocation of a license, no refund shall be made to the owner
for any portion of the license fee. (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
5-11-6: FARES TO BE POSTED:
The schedule of charges for service shall be posted in a conspicuous place
inside each vehicle licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
5-11-7: NUMBER OF PASSENGERS:
No person shall accept for carriage or carry any passengers in excess of the
fixed seating capacity of the vehicle licensed under this chapter, nor shall
more than one person be permitted to ride in the compartment or to occupy the
front seat next to the driver. (Ord. 2973, 8-17-2015)
5-11-8: SEATING ARRANGEMENTS; ALTERATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall reconstruct, materially alter, modify or add to the body or
seating arrangement of any licensed motor vehicle after the license therefor is
issued, without first applying for and receiving the consent of the mayor.
(1950 Code)
5-11-9: (Rep. by Ord. 815, 5-19-1975)
5-11-10: AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS:
All licenses, permits and badges issued under this chapter shall be subject to
the right of the council to enact or amend any ordinances controlling,
regulating and governing the operation of motor vehicles or prescribing
additional terms, conditions or fees. (1950 Code)
5-11-11: EXCEPTIONS:
Licenses and permits required by this chapter shall not apply to motor vehicles
and drivers engaged in funeral service, or to motor vehicles authorized to
operate over fixed routes in the state, or to any motor vehicle carrying
passengers for hire, regularly operating over fixed routes within the city, or
to or from any point or points outside of the city. (1950 Code)
CHAPTER 12
(Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
CHAPTER 13
ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Purpose And Construction
5-13-2: Definitions
5-13-3: Licenses Required
5-13-4: Restrictions On Licenses
5-13-5: Classification Of Licenses
5-13-6: Number Of Licenses
5-13-7: Fees
5-13-8: Restrictions On Location
5-13-9: Restrictions On Time Of Sale
5-13-10: Closing Hours; Exception
5-13-11: Unlawful Sales
5-13-12: Restrictions Of Persons Of Nonage
5-13-13: Inspection Of Premises
5-13-14: Gambling
5-13-15: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5-13-16: Powers Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5-13-17: Filing Of Application
5-13-18: Time Of Application
5-13-19: Temporary License For The Annual City Fair
5-13-19-5: Temporary License For Sale At Dixon Riverfront/Heritage Crossing
5-13-20: Conduct In Or Upon Licensed Premises
5-13-21: Transporting In Motor Vehicles
5-13-22: Outdoor Sales And Seating
5-13-23: Outdoor Sidewalk Cafe
5-13-24: Dixon Welcome Center
5-13-25: Sales By Licensees At Locations Other Than Licensed Premises
5-13-26: Dixon Theatre Event Venue
5-13-27: Delivery And Carry Out Of Mixed Drinks
5-13-1: PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION 1 :
This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the city shall be protected and the temperance
in the consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be fostered by sound and
careful control and regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages and alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 749, 5-21-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-2 et seq.
5-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less, of alcohol by volume. This chapter shall not apply to wine
intended for use and used by any church or religious organization for
sacramental purposes.
BANQUET FACILITY: Any premises kept, used, maintained or held out to the public
as a place where groups of not fewer than four (4) persons may gather for the
purpose of conducting receptions, banquets, wedding and other receptions,
meetings, parties or other private special events. The primary purpose of such
premises need not be conduct of such special events; however, a significant
purpose shall be the conduct of such special events. For example, a retail
business may qualify as a banquet facility provided that, in the determination
of the local liquor control commissioner, the requirements of this chapter are
met.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building or such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter,
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members and similarly
files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member his name
and address; and, provided, further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent
or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in form of
salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of
alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club 1 .
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment which offers for sale a variety of
food and nonfood items, including pop, cigarettes, snacks and toiletries, in a
limited physical space and emphasizing fast service.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity. All public dining rooms, banquet rooms,
meeting rooms, room service areas, mini-bars, and other locations within or
adjacent to a hotel in which alcoholic liquors are stored, offered for sale or
sold at retail shall be considered part of the hotel's licensed premises if
those locations within or adjacent to the hotel are owned and managed by the
hotel operator. Public dining rooms and other locations within or adjacent to a
hotel that are owned or managed by a person other than the hotel operator are
not considered part of the hotel's licensed premises and, as such, must be
maintained and operated under separate licenses 1 .
PREMISES: The place or location where alcoholic beverages, beer or wine are
stored, displayed, offered for sale or where drinks containing alcoholic
beverages, beer or wine are mixed, concocted and served for consumption. Not
included in the definition are sidewalks, streets, parking areas and grounds
adjacent to any such place or location.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests. A minimum of sixty percent (60%)
of the gross receipts of the licensee must be generated by the sale of food or
nonalcoholic beverages; provided, that such requirement shall not apply to any
licensee holding a valid Class A, Class A-1, Class B or Class B-1 license as of
the date of adoption of the ordinance codifying this definition. Upon request
of the Liquor Control Commissioner, the licensee shall produce records or
financial data to verify satisfaction of the foregoing gross receipts
requirement.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee 3 .
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
THEATRE HOUSE: A premises open to the public which provides a venue for
theatrical or musical performances of a non-cinematic nature utilizing the
talents of live performers.
TO SELL: To keep or expose for sale or to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as herein defined.
(Ord. 749, 5-21-1973; amd. Ord. 1611, 8-19-1991; Ord. 2294, 12-18-2000; Ord.
2295, 12-18-2000; Ord. 3104, 7-2-2018; 2020 Code; Ord. 3231, 5-3-2021; Ord.
3324, 9-19-2022)   
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/3.24.
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/3.25.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/3.21.
5-13-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
No person shall within the City, sell, keep or offer for sale any alcoholic
liquor, nor may a restaurant permit patrons to bring alcoholic liquor onto the
premises of the restaurant for the patron's consumption, without having a valid
license so to do, issued in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter. No
license shall be issued without the approval of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, who, by the virtue of his office, is the Mayor of the City 1 .
(Ord. 2713, 10-20-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
5-13-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
   (A)   No liquor license shall be issued to any person or for any location
where the issuance of same is prohibited by the Statutes of the State of
Illinois.
   (B)   Each licensee under this chapter, except for holders of temporary
licenses, shall commence operation of the business for which the license is
granted, including the sale or service of alcoholic liquors, within ninety (90)
days following the issuance of that license by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. Upon a showing of good cause, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may extend in writing that date by which operation of the
business, including the sale or service of alcoholic liquors, shall commence.
   (C)   No licensee under this chapter, except for holders of temporary
licenses, shall cease to operate the business for which the license is granted,
including the sale or service of alcoholic liquors, for any period exceeding
thirty (30) days without first obtaining written approval from the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. Approval may be granted upon a showing of good cause for
the cessation of operations and may include, in the discretion of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, a date by which operation of the business,
including the sale or service of alcoholic liquors, shall resume. (Ord. 3026,
12-19-2016)
5-13-5: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses shall be divided into the following classes 1 :
   (A)   Class A: A Class A license shall be issued to a "restaurant" or
"hotel" only as defined in this chapter and shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold as well as other
retail sale of alcoholic liquor, excluding Sundays.
   (B)   Class A-1: A Class A-1 license shall be issued to a "restaurant" or
"hotel" only as defined in this chapter and shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold as well as other
retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Class B: A Class B license shall be issued to a restaurant or hotel
only and shall authorize the sale of beer and wine only for consumption on the
premises as well as other retail sale of beer and wine, excluding Sundays.
   (D)   Class B-1: A Class B-1 license shall be issued to a restaurant or
hotel only and shall authorize the sale of beer and wine only for consumption
on the premises as well as other retail sale of beer and wine.
   (E)   Class C: A Class C license shall be issued to duly authorized clubs as
defined in this chapter and shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises only, excluding Sundays.
   (F)   Class C-1: A Class C-1 license shall be issued to duly authorized
clubs as defined in this chapter and shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises only.
   (G)   Class D: A Class D license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other retail sales
of alcoholic liquor, excluding Sundays.
   (H)   Class D-1: A Class D-1 license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other retail sales
of alcoholic liquor.
   (I)   Class E: A Class E license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the premises only and issued to only those
establishments commonly known as a "package liquor store", excluding Sundays.
   (J)   Class E-1: A Class E-1 license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the premises only and issued to only those
establishments commonly known as a "package liquor store".
   (K)   Class F: A Class F license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor, excluding Sundays, for consumption off the premises only and shall be
issued only to those establishments whose principal business is a grocery store
or drugstore. The term "drugstore" shall be limited to businesses which, along
with other retail trade, are duly authorized to sell prescription drugs. The
term "grocery store" shall be limited to businesses whose primary source of
income is derived from the retail sale of vegetables, meat, fruit and other
food products.
   (L)   Class F-1: A Class F-1 license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the premises only and shall be issued only to those
establishments whose principal business is a grocery store or drugstore. The
term "drugstore" shall be limited to businesses which, along with other retail
trade, are duly authorized to sell prescription drugs. The term "grocery store"
shall be limited to businesses whose primary source of income is derived from
the retail sale of vegetables, meat, fruit and other food products.
   (M)   Temporary License:
      1.   Purpose: A temporary license may be issued for a limited period of
time for the purpose of allowing the licensee to raise funds for charitable,
educational or civic purposes. The license shall be valid only at the location
and on the specific dates designated in the application.
      2.   Issuance: A temporary license may be issued to any not for profit
corporation organized and operating under the laws of the State of Illinois for
education, charitable or civic purposes. No license shall be issued unless the
applicant has been incorporated for a period of not less than three (3) years
prior to making application for such license. Applications shall be made with
the Mayor at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date of intended sale or
distribution of alcoholic beverages and shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Term Of License: A temporary license may be issued for a period not
to exceed two (2) consecutive calendar days and shall be subject to the
provisions of sections
5-13-9 and
5-13-10 of this chapter regarding time of sale, unless the Liquor Commissioner
further restricts the time of sale. No applicant shall receive more than
fourteen (14) temporary licenses in a calendar year. Sunday sales are allowed.
      4.   Application: In addition to any other requirements contained in an
application for liquor license, the applicant shall include the following
information:
         (a)   The location for which the license is sought;
         (b)   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental agreement or other
written authority for the use of the location if the applicant is not the owner
of said location;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the purpose for the issuance of said
license;
         (d)   A statement setting forth the applicant's arrangements for crowd
control;
         (e)   Certificate of insurance showing coverage for dram shop
insurance in the maximum limits and liability coverage;
         (f)   A request for a specific time and date for the term of said
license.
      5.   Fees: The fee for each temporary license issued hereunder shall be
five dollars ($5.00) and shall be paid in full at the time the license is
issued.
      6.   Compliance: Provided the license holder complies with subsection
(M)7 of this section, persons under the age of twenty one (21) are authorized
to be present on the premises during the time for which the temporary license
has been granted for the purpose of purchasing food and nonalcoholic beverages
only and if accompanied by a parent or guardian.
      7.   Secured Area: A temporary license holder that permits persons under
the age of twenty one (21) to be present on that portion of the premises where
alcoholic liquor is being sold pursuant to subsection (M)6 of this section
shall secure the area where the alcoholic liquor and food are being dispensed
from the general area of the remainder of the premises. Applicants shall file
plans and drawings showing the segregation of the secured area with the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. Said plans must be approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner prior to the issuance of a temporary license.
   (N)   Class G-1: A Class G-1 license shall authorize the sale of beer and
wine only, for consumption off the premises only and shall be issued, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, only to those establishments whose
principal business is a convenience store.
   (O)   Class G-2: A Class G-2 license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the premises only and shall be issued, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, only to those establishments whose
principal business is a convenience store.
   (P)   Class H-1: (Rep. by Ord. 2832, 7-18-2011)
   (Q)   Class I: A Class I license shall authorize the sale of beer and wine
only for consumption on the premises where sold, excluding Sundays.
   (R)   Class I-1: A Class I-1 license shall authorize the sale of beer and
wine only for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (S)   Class N: A Class N license shall not authorize the sale or the
offering for sale of any alcoholic liquor, but shall authorize the consumption
of beer and wine only brought onto the premises by a patron of legal drinking
age for such patron's personal consumption, subject to the following conditions
and restrictions:
      1.   Beer or wine only is permitted to be brought onto the premises and
consumed by patrons;
      2.   The licensee is allowed only to provide glasses, ice and a corkscrew
for patrons for the consumption of beer or wine;
      3.   The licensee, its agents and/or employees are prohibited from
storing any beer or wine for patrons;
      4.   Patrons are prohibited from taking any opened beer or wine from the
premises. Any opened and unconsumed beer or wine must be disposed of by the
patron or licensee, in a proper drain and trash receptacle which is to be made
available to the patron by the licensee, and which shall be emptied at the
close of each business day;
      5.   No "corking fee" may be charged by the licensee;
      6.   All bottles or cans brought onto the premises must be sealed in
their original seal;
      7.   The beer or wine must be commercially manufactured;
      8.   Only one wine bottle per patron shall be allowed;
      9.   No wine bottle may exceed one thousand milliliters (1,000 mL) in
volume;
      10.   Only three (3) beer bottles or cans per patron shall be allowed;
      11.   No beer bottle or can may exceed twelve (12) ounces in volume;
      12.   No alcoholic liquor other than beer or wine may be brought onto the
premises.
   (T)   Class O: A Class O license shall authorize the sale of beer and wine
only for consumption on the premises where sold and shall be issued only to not
for profit corporations organized and operating under the laws of the State of
Illinois for education, charitable or civic purposes and which are also exempt
from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. No video
gaming shall be permitted on the premises of a Class O license. Clubs, as
defined in this chapter, shall not be eligible for a Class O license.
   (U)   Class F-2: A Class F-2 license shall authorize the sale of beer and
wine for consumption on the premises only and shall be issued only to those
establishments whose principal business is a grocery store. The term "grocery
store" shall be limited to businesses whose primary source of income is derived
from the retail sale of vegetables, meat, fruit and other food products and
which shall be located in a building containing not less than 30,000 square
feet. To be eligible for a Class F-2 license, the licensee must also have
either a Class F or Class F-1 license.
   (V)   Class P: A Class P license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of a banquet facility for only twenty-
one (21) days per month, subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   Sales may be conducted for no more than six (6) hours during a
single day and must terminate no later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.;
      2.   Sales must be conducted in connection with a designed, prearranged
special event under sponsorship of a particular person or organization. Food
service, such as multiple course meals, hors d'oeuvres or buffet meals, at a
prearranged price, may be available at the event. Food service must comply with
all public health rules and regulations. Attendance at the event shall be
limited to specific invitees of the person or organization sponsoring the
event. No "drop in" or reservation dining, food service or sales shall be
permitted by the general public. Attendees shall be prohibited from taking any
alcoholic liquor from the premises.
   (W)   Class T: A Class T license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of a Theatre House, subject to the
following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   Sales may be conducted beginning three (3) hours prior to the
performance and must terminate no later than midnight on the day of the
performance.
      2.   Patrons purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor must be fitted
with an identifiable wristband after evidencing that they are the age of
twenty-one (21) or older.
      3.   Alcoholic liquor may be consumed by patrons throughout the premises.
(Ord. 1615, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. 2009, 9-2-1997; Ord. 2295, 12-18-2000; Ord.
2713, 10-20-2008; Ord. 3031, 3-20-2017; Ord. 3063, 10-2-2017; Ord. 3081, 2-20-
2018; Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; Ord. 3211, 9-21-2020; Ord. 3231, 5-3-2021; Ord.
3324, 9-19-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
5-13-6: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   (A)   The number of Class A and Class A-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed nineteen (19) in number.
   (B)   The number of Class B and Class B-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed seven (7) in number.
   (C)   The number of Class C and Class C-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed five (5) in number.
   (D)   The number of Class D and Class D-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed eighteen (18) in number.
   (E)   The number of Class E and Class E-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed two (2) in number.
   (F)   The number of Class F and Class F-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed seven (7) in number.
   (G)   The number of Class G-1 and Class G-2 licenses, collectively, shall
not exceed eleven (11) in number.
   (H)   Reserved.
   (I)   The number of Class I and Class I-1 licenses, collectively, shall not
exceed three (3) in number.
   (J)   The number of Class N licenses shall not exceed four (4) in number.
   (K)   The number of Class O licenses, collectively, shall not exceed one in
number.
   (L)   The number of Class F-2 licenses shall not exceed two (2) in number.
   (M)   The number of Class P licenses shall not exceed two (2) in number.
   (N)   The number of Class T licenses shall not exceed three (3) in number.
(Ord. 2958, 1-20-2015; amd. Ord. 3031, 3-2-2017; Ord. 3036, 4-17-2017; Ord.
3081, 2-20-2018; Ord. 3102, 6-18-2018; Ord. 3153, 8-5-2019; Ord. 3186, 2-18-
2020; Ord. 3218, 12-7-2020; Ord. 3226, 2-16-2021; Ord. 3231, 5-3-2021; Ord.
3244, 9-20-2021; Ord. 3289, 4-4-2022; Ord. 3298, 4-18-2022; Ord. 3313, 6-20-
2022; Ord. 3322, 9-6-2022; Ord. 3324, 9-19-2022; Ord. 3326, 10-17-2022; Ord.
3342, 4-3-2023; Ord. 3373, 10-16-2023; Ord. 3423, 11-18-2024)
5-13-7: FEES:
   (A)   The annual fees for licenses according to class as defined in this
chapter shall be as set forth below. In addition, commencing with liquor
licenses issued or renewed for the City's 2024 fiscal year, and continuing
annually thereafter, said fees shall automatically increase each year by a
percentage equal to the lesser of (i) five percent (5%) and (ii) the change in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers during the twelve (12) month
calendar year prior to the year in which the fee is due. Said automatic
increase shall only apply to fees with respect to Class A, A-1, B, B-1, C, C-1,
D, D-1, E, E-1, F, F-1, F-2, G-1, G-2, I, I-1, and P.
Class Description Fees
Class     Description                                               Fees
A         Restaurant/hotel excluding Sundays                        $2,175.00
A-1       Restaurant/hotel including Sundays                        $2,480.00
B         Restaurant/hotel excluding Sundays - beer and wine only   $550.00
B-1       Restaurant/hotel including Sundays - beer and wine only   $730.00
C         Clubs excluding Sundays                                   $665.00
C-1       Clubs including Sundays                                   $760.00
D         Tavern excluding Sundays                                  $2,175.00
D-1       Tavern including Sundays                                  $2,480.00
E         Package liquor excluding Sundays                          $1,975.00
E-1       Package liquor including Sundays                          $2,085.00
F         Grocery store/drugstore excluding Sundays                 $1,975.00
F-1       Grocery store/drugstore including Sundays                 $2,085.00
F-2       Grocery store/beer and wine consumption on premises (must $2,085.00
          have F/F-1)
G-1       Convenience store/gas station beer and wine only          $1,650.00
G-2       Convenience store/gas station                             $2,085.00
I         Beer and wine consumption on premises excluding Sundays   $2,175.00
I-1       Beer and wine consumption on premises including Sundays   $2,480.00
N         Beer and wine cork and carry on premises                  $50.00
O         Not for profit                                            $40.00
P         Banquet facilities                                        $235.00
Temporary Off premises license                                      $64.00
Temporary Off premises license - if no profit is made               $5.00
Temporary Petunia Festival                                          $1.00
 
   License fees shall be paid in advance on an annual basis. Fees for renewal
of a license not paid by April 1 of each year shall be charged a late fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (B)   In the event of a voluntary termination of a license by a licensee,
refunds of license fees paid shall be made as hereafter set forth. The City
shall refund the licensee a pro rata portion of the license fees paid for the
current license year based upon the remaining portion of such year, calculated
on a monthly basis. No refund shall be made of any portion of the license fees
paid for the first year of a license. Further, revocation of a license for any
reason shall result in the forfeiture of all license fees paid.  (Ord. 3062,
10-2-2017; amd. Ord. 3124, 3-4-2019; amd. Ord. 3173, 11-4-2019; Ord. 3186, 2-
18-2020; Ord. 3224, 2-1-2021; Ord. 3231, 5-3-2021; Ord. 3262, 2-7-2022; Ord.
3324, 9-19-2022 ; Ord. 3347, 4-17-2023 )
5-13-8: RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION:
   (A)   General Restrictions On Location: Except in locations where licenses
have been previously granted, no license shall be issued for the sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred (100) feet of any church, school
other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station, provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on.
   (B)   Zoning: No license shall be issued to any premises unless the sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor at such premises complies with the applicable
Zoning Ordinance for the City.
   (C)   Restriction On Premises Of Class F Or F-1 Licenses: No Class F or F-
1 license shall be issued unless a separate area is established for the display
of alcoholic liquors, exclusive of wine and beer.
   (D)   Restriction On Premises Of Class G-1 And Class G-2 Licenses: No Class
G-1 or Class G-2 license shall be granted to any premises where gasoline is
sold except the license may be granted where the sale of gasoline is in
conjunction with a convenience store having actual retail space of one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet or more.
   (E)   Consumption Of Alcohol Or Possession Of Open Container In A Public
Place: No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor or have in his or her
possession any open container of any alcoholic liquor in any public place
within the City except: 1) on premises licensed for the retail sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquors, or 2) as otherwise provided in this chapter,
or 3) as permitted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may grant such written permission only to not for profit
corporations incorporated for a period of not less than three (3) years and
organized and operating under the laws of the State of Illinois for
educational, charitable or civic purposes. The grant of permission may contain
such further terms, conditions and restrictions regarding the number of days,
the location, hours and time as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems
necessary and in the best interests of the City. For purposes of this section,
"public place" means any street, sidewalk, park, alley, dedicated public right-
of-way or area of a business where the public is invited, but shall not include
residential property.
   F.   Restriction On Premises Of Class F-2 Licenses: No Class F-2 license
shall be issued unless a separate area is established for the on premises sale
and consumption of beer and wine. No beer and wine may be consumed outside of
such separate area.
(Ord. 715, 8-21-1972, eff. 11-1-1972; amd. Ord. 2256, 6-19-2000; Ord. 2643, 6-
4-2007; Ord. 3031, 3-20-2017; Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; 2020 Code)
5-13-9: RESTRICTIONS ON TIME OF SALE 1 :
No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given
away upon or about any licensed premises by anyone at any time except those
times permitted by this section.
   (A)   General Restrictions On Time Of Sale: No alcoholic liquor shall be
sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given away upon or about any
licensed premises by anyone except during the following periods of time on the
following days:
      1.   On the days of Monday through Saturday from six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the following day.
      2.   For those licenses only which permit the sale of alcoholic liquor on
Sundays: On Sundays from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a licensee having a Class A-1, B-1, E-1, F-
1, G-1 or O license may remain open to the public to sell, deliver, transfer or
distribute alcoholic liquor on Sundays from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. A licensee having a temporary license as defined in
subsection
5-13-5(M), and sections
5-13-19 and
5-13-19-5 of this chapter may apply for written permission from the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, which permission may be given in his or her sole
discretion, to sell, deliver, transfer or distribute alcoholic liquor on
Sundays from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
      3.   A licensee having a Class F, F-1, F-2, G-1, I, or I-1 license may
remain open to the public to sell, deliver, transfer, distribute or give away
alcoholic liquor only: a) during regular retail store hours, b) during times
specified in this section, and c) on the days specified for that license.
   (B)   New Year's Eve Exception: On the evening of December 31 of one year to
January 1 of the following year (which period is commonly known as New Year's
Eve), licensed premises may sell alcoholic beverages from six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of December 31 of one year until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1 of
the following year. If December 31 of any year is a Sunday, alcoholic liquor
may be sold between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on December 31 to
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of January 1 of the following year.
   (C)   Holiday Exception: On the Sunday evening of any Sunday which precedes
a legal holiday as affirmed by the Mayor of the City of Dixon, licensed
premises may sell alcoholic beverages until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the
following day. This exception shall only apply in those instances where the
Mayor of the City of Dixon has affirmed that the Monday following the Sunday in
question is a legal holiday.
   (D)   Rules For Class O License: Alcoholic liquor may be sold, delivered,
transferred, distributed or given away on the premises during no more than
thirty (30) hours per calendar month. The holder of a Class O license shall, at
least five (5) days before the commencement of each month, provide the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner with a written schedule of anticipated hours for
the following month, including closing times. The schedule may be amended only
upon the prior approval of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Nothing in
this subsection shall limit the ability of the holder of Class O license to
apply for a temporary license under subsection
5-13-5(M) of this chapter.
   (E)   Rules For Class N: No beer or wine brought onto the premises of a
Class N license may be consumed after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on days the
licensee is open. All beer and wine shall be removed from the licensed premises
at that time. Opened beer and wine shall be disposed of pursuant to section
5-13-5(S) of this chapter. Patrons with unopened beer or wine shall be required
to leave the licensed premises or dispose of the same pursuant to section
5-13-5(S) of this chapter.
   (F)   Rules for Class P License: Alcoholic liquor may be sold only in strict
conformance with the requirements set forth in section
5-13-5(V) of this chapter.
   (G)   Rules For Class T License: Alcoholic liquor may be sold only in strict
conformance with the requirements set forth in subsection 5-13-5(W) of this
chapter. (Ord. 1610, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. 2356, 2-18-2020; Ord. 2498, 9-7-2004;
Ord. 3081, 2-20-2018; Ord. 3129, 3-18-2019; Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; Ord. 3211, 9-
21-2020; Ord. 3231, 5-3-2021; Ord. 3324, 9-19-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. It is the intention of the City Council that this section control the
  times that alcoholic liquor may be sold or dispensed.
5-13-10: CLOSING HOURS; EXCEPTION 1 :
   (A)   General Closing Hours:
      1.   No person other than a licensee or an employee of a licensee shall
remain upon any licensed premises for any period of time longer than one-half
(1/2) hour following the time specified in section
5-13-9 of this chapter as the time when the sale, distribution, transfer or
gift of alcoholic liquor must terminate.
      2.   No person including a licensee or an employee of a licensee shall
remain upon any licensed premises for any period of time longer than eighty
(80) minutes following the time specified in section
5-13-9 of this chapter as the time when the sale, distribution, transfer or
gift of alcoholic liquor must terminate. At no time while the licensee, or his
employees or agents, are upon the premises for the purpose of operating,
controlling, maintaining or cleaning the premises, shall the licensee or
employee or agent consume, sell, deliver, transfer, distribute or give away any
alcoholic beverage on said premises; and during said times the doors of the
licensed premises shall be secured to the general public.
      3.   No licensee, employee or agent of a licensee shall permit any other
person to remain on the licensed premises beyond the closing hours specified in
subsection (A)1 of this section and in section
5-13-9 of this chapter.
   (B)   Exception: Persons and premises having a Class A, A-1, B, B-1, C or C-
1 license may remain open after the time designated in subsection (A) of this
section but only for the sale of food or beverages other than alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Special Permit Application: A licensee may apply to the Liquor
Commission for a special permit to allow the licensee, its agent or employees,
to be upon the licensed premises at other times for the purpose of remodeling
or redecorating. Such permit shall be issued only if a valid building permit
for such redecorating or remodeling, if necessary, has been issued by the
building official of the City.
   (D)   Exception For Class F, F-1, G-1, I, Or I-1 License: Persons and
premises having a Class F, F-1, G-1, I, or I-1 license may remain open after
the time designated in section
5-13-9 of this chapter but only for the sale of food products, drugs, gasoline
and retail items other than alcoholic liquor.
   (E)   Exception For Class N License: Persons and premises having a Class N
license may remain open after the time designated in section
5-13-9(E) of this chapter; provided, that all beer and wine shall be removed
from the licensed premises at that time. (Ord. 1612, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. 2205,
1-3-2000; Ord. 2498, 9-7-2004; Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; Ord. 3211, 9-21-2020)
 
Notes
  1. It is the intention of the City Council that this section control the
  times when patrons must vacate licensed premises and control the times when
  licensees or employees must vacate licensed premises to ensure adequate
1 enforcement of this liquor ordinance and to protect the owners of such
  premises against unauthorized intrusion into their premises by persons
  committing or attempting to commit burglary, theft, criminal damage to
  property or criminal trespass.
5-13-11: UNLAWFUL SALES:
   (A)   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated person,
except as provided in 235 ILCS 5/6-16.1. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, should sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
except in the performance of religious ceremony or service and under the
conditions of subsection (D) of this section.
   (B)   Any licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written
evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty
one (21) years. For the purpose of this subsection, adequate written evidence
of age and identity of the person is a document issued by a Federal, state,
county or municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including,
but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a registration
certificate issued under the Federal Selective Service Act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
   (C)   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such a sale
or delivery demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
   (D)   This section does not apply to the possession, dispension or
consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons participating in the performance
of a religious ceremony nor to minors consuming alcoholic beverages under the
direct supervision and approval of a parent of such minor in the privacy of the
minor's home. (Ord. 1023, 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. 2020 Code)
5-13-12: RESTRICTIONS OF PERSONS OF NONAGE:
   (A)   Purchase or Consume Alcohol: No person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years shall purchase, attempt to purchase, or consume alcoholic liquor in
a licensed premises.
   (B)   Remaining on Property: Except as specifically set forth in this
Section, no person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall enter upon any
licensed premises, and no licensee shall allow any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years to remain in, on or around the licensed premises.
   (C)   Loitering:
      1.   Persons sixteen (16) years of age or older are authorized to be
present on premises having a Class A, A-1, B, B-1 or N license for the purpose
of purchasing food and nonalcoholic beverages.
      2.   At premises having a Class F, F-1, F-2, G-1, or G-2 license, persons
under twenty-one (21) years of age are permitted for any lawful purpose, but
they shall not loiter on the premises or remain longer than necessary to
accomplish their lawful purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to
premises having a Class F-2 license, no person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years shall remain in or about the separated portion of the licensed premises
that is designated for on premises sale and consumption of beer and wine.
      3.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age are authorized to be
present on premises having a Class D or D-1 license for the limited purpose of
attending a private party in accordance with the following:
         a.   With respect to private parties during hours the licensed
premises is open to the public, the private party shall be held in a
segregated, self-contained party room without video gaming terminals and with
access to immediately adjacent bathroom facilities.
         b.   Additionally, if the licensed premises is closed to the public
for the duration of the private party, the private party may be held within the
entirety of the licensed premises and need not be limited to a segregated,
self-contained party room.
         c.   Such persons shall be present with a parent or guardian.
         d.   Such persons shall not be present on the licensed premises after
9:00 P.M.
   (D)   Parent or Guardian Present: Persons below the age of sixteen (16)
years are allowed to be present at premises having a Class A, A-1, B, B-1, C,
C-1, E, E-1, or N license provided they are present with a parent or guardian.
   (E)   Employees:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years may sell,
distribute, or pour alcoholic liquor or be employed by a licensee for the
purposes of tending bar and/or drawing, pouring, mixing, selling, delivering or
distributing any alcoholic liquor or for the purpose of selling alcoholic
liquor as a cashier, clerk or salesperson.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for all licensed premises except
those having Class D, D-1 or I licenses, the following shall be permitted: (1)
persons who are at least eighteen (18) years of age may be employed as waiters
or waitresses for the purpose of serving alcoholic liquor in the ordinary
course of such employment; (2) persons who are at least eighteen (18) years of
age may be employed as cashiers in retail stores for the purpose of selling
alcoholic liquor in the ordinary course of such employment; and (3) persons who
are at least sixteen (16) years of age may be employed for the purposes of
cleaning, cooking or bussing provided they may not be employed on the premises
for any other purpose.
   (F)   Sitting at a Bar: Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years may
not sit at a bar or primary place where alcoholic liquor is dispensed.
   (G)   Persons of Nonage Performing Live Music: Persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) years may be present on a licensed premises for the purpose of
performing live music from thirty (30) minutes in advance of such performance
until thirty (30) minutes after for the set up and removal of any incidental
equipment. At least one-half (1/2) of the participants in the performance must
be of age twenty-one (21) years or older.
   (H)   Class O Licenses: During those times the holder of a Class O License
is selling, delivering, transferring, distributing or giving away alcoholic
liquor pursuant to subsection
5-13-9(D) of this chapter, persons below the age of sixteen (16) years are
allowed to be present on the premises provided they are present with a parent
or guardian. During such times, persons between the ages of sixteen and twenty-
one (21) years are permitted to be present on the premises for any lawful
purpose, but they shall not loiter on the premises or remain longer than
necessary to accomplish their lawful purpose.
   (I)   Class P License: During those times the holder of a Class P License is
selling alcoholic liquor, persons below the age of sixteen (16) years are
allowed to be present on the premises provided they are present with a parent
or guardian. During such times, persons between the ages of sixteen (16) and
twenty-one (21) are permitted to be present on the premises for any lawful
purpose, but they shall not loiter on the premises or remain longer than
necessary to accomplish their lawful purpose.
   (J)   Class T License: During those times the holder of a Class T License is
selling alcoholic liquor, persons below the age of sixteen (16) years are
allowed to be present on the premises provided they are present with a parent
or guardian. During such times, persons between the ages of sixteen (16) and
twenty-one (21) are permitted to be present on the premises for any lawful
purpose, but they shall not loiter on the premises or remain longer than
necessary to accomplish their lawful purpose. (Ord. 1023, 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-
1980; amd. Ord. 1095, 7-6-1981; Ord. 1211, 1-16-1984; Ord. 1263, 4-1-1985; Ord.
1611, 8-19-1991; Ord. 2207, 1-3-2000; Ord. 2344, 9-4-2001; Ord. 2713, 10-20-
2008; Ord. 3056, 9-5-2017; Ord. 3081, 2-20-2018; Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; Ord.
3242, 9-7-2021; Ord. 3445, 4-7-2025; Ord. 3459, 6-23-2025)
5-13-13: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The Mayor, Commissioners, Chief of Police and all members of the police force
may enter and inspect the premises of each licensee hereunder, or any adjacent
premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his agent, at any time, and
they may take possession of and remove any intoxicating liquors found upon the
premises in violation of any provision of this Code and all licenses now in
force or hereafter issued under this chapter shall be subject to the
reservation of such authority and refusal to permit such action shall
constitute sufficient grounds for the immediate suspension or revocation of the
license by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 715, 8-21-1972, eff.
11-1-1972)
5-13-14: GAMBLING:
   (A)   No licensee or his agents or employees shall permit any person upon
the licensed premises to play any games or participate in any activities for
money or other article of value or permit any person to bring on the premises
any wheel, machine, video gaming terminal, board, dice, slot machine,
punchboard, or other machine or device used for gambling, except video gaming
terminals licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
   (B)   No licensee or his agents or employees shall allow in or about the
licensed premises the sale or purchase wherein any part of the article or thing
received or to be received, either as to quantity or value, shall in any manner
depend upon any chance or hazard, whether by means of checks, cards, envelopes,
dice, punchboard or by any means whatever, except at those premises where the
licensee: 1) obtains applicable State license or permit to conduct or allow
others to conduct the game commonly known as "bingo", or 2) is a licensed
establishment permitting it to do so under the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
   (C)   Every clock, machine, slot machine, video gaming terminal, punchboard
or other machine or device for the reception of money on chance or upon the
action of which money is staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost is hereby declared
a gambling device and the same shall be seized, confiscated and destroyed by
the police of the City wherever found upon the licensed premises or place
controlled by the licensee, except video gaming terminals licensed and
registered under the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
   (D)   Any individual, partnership or corporation intending to place a video
gaming terminal in its establishment shall first file an application for a
video gaming licensed establishment permit, which application shall include the
following information:
      1.   The location for which the license is sought;
      2.   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental arrangement or other
written authority for use of the equipment at the location;
      3.   The number of video gaming terminals to be on the location for which
a permit is requested; and
      4.   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). The application fee shall be payable to the city by
certified check or money order.
   (E)   All permits issued hereunder shall be issued by the mayor and attested
by the city clerk and no permit shall issue until the application therefor
shall have been approved by the mayor.
   (F)   An annual permit fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
video gaming terminal shall be paid in advance on or before April 1 of each
year. Each permit shall expire on April 30 of each year. There shall be no
proration of permit fees. The cost of such permit fees shall be shared equally
between the terminal operator and the applicable licensed establishment, as
provided by State law.
   (G)   Each licensee shall comply with all requirements of the Illinois video
gaming act, as amended from time to time.
   (H)   Under no circumstances shall any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years be permitted to use or play a video gaming terminal. Any licensee
who: 1) knowingly permits a person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
use or play a video gaming terminal or 2) fails to fully comply with the
provisions of the Illinois video gaming act or this section, shall have all
permits of the licensee suspended, terminated or revoked. All hearings to
determine whether said permit shall be suspended, terminated or revoked shall
be conducted by the mayor. All appeals from any decision of the mayor shall be
limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the mayor.
   (I)   With respect to premises having a Class F-2 license, all video gaming
terminals shall be located in the separated portion of the licensed premises
that is designated for on premises sale and consumption of beer and wine. The
video gaming terminals shall only be operated during the time designed in
section
5-13-9 for on premises sale and consumption of beer and wine. (Ord. 2879, 6-18-
2012; amd. Ord. 3186, 2-18-2020; Ord. 3261, 1-18-2022)
5-13-15: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   (A)   The mayor shall be the local liquor control commissioner and shall be
charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of this chapter
and such other provisions of this code relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted. He may appoint a person to assist him in the exercise of the powers
and the performance of the duties herein provided for the local liquor control
commissioner.
   (B)   The local liquor control commissioner, with the approval of a majority
of the council, may adopt rules and regulations for hearings to determine
whether any license should be suspended, terminated or revoked. (Ord. 715, 8-
21-1972, eff. 11-1-1972)
5-13-16: POWERS OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   (A)   The local liquor control commissioner shall have all the powers as
provided by the laws of the state. The local liquor control commissioner may
suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter and, in addition to a
suspension, may levy a fine not in the amounts set forth in subsection (C)
against the licensee for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the
Illinois liquor control act, or any ordinance enacted by the city council.
      2.   The licensee has made a false statement as to any material fact on
its application for a liquor license.
      3.   The licensee has permitted an unlawful, disorderly or immoral
practice upon the licensed premises.
      4.   The licensee has refused to testify on oath as to all relevant and
material questions propounded to him at any hearing conducted by the mayor in
which a violation of any law of the United States, of the state of Illinois or
any ordinances of the city regulating the sale of alcoholic liquor has been
charged.
      5.   The state of Illinois liquor control commission has suspended or
revoked the license of the licensee.
      6.   The licensee has failed during the term for which the license is
issued to conform to any of the requirements for the initial issuance of a
license to sell alcoholic liquors.
      7.   Any agent or employee of the licensee has been found to have
committed any of the acts specified in subsections (A)1 through (A)6 of this
section.
   (B)   All hearings to determine whether any license shall be suspended,
terminated, or revoked, or whether a licensee shall be fined, shall be
conducted by the local liquor control commissioner. A certified court reporter
or certified shorthand reporter shall be present and shall prepare a certified
official record of the proceedings. All appeals from any decision of the local
liquor control commissioner shall be limited to a review of the official record
of the proceedings of the local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 1920, 2-5-
1996)
   (C)   The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
a first violation within a twelve (12)-month period, one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a twelve (12)-month period,
and two (thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent
violation within a twelve (12)-month period. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Note more than fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this subsection (C) may be imposed
against any licensee during the period of his or her license. (2020 Code)
5-13-17: FILING OF APPLICATION:
   (A)   In addition to any other requirements contained in an application for
liquor license, an application for a liquor license or renewal thereof shall
include the following information:
      1.   The location for which the license is sought;
      2.   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental arrangement or other
written authority for the use of the location if the applicant is not the owner
of said location;
      3.   Certificate of insurance showing evidence of dramshop insurance
coverage;
      4.   Certificate of insurance evidencing public liability insurance in an
amount not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) to any one person or
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one accident. (Ord. 1341,
10-20-1986)
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each person applying for the license. The
application fee shall be payable to the city by certified check or money order.
(Ord. 2411, 10-7-2002)
   (C)   All licenses issued hereunder shall be issued by the mayor and
attested by the clerk under the corporate seal and no license shall issue until
the application therefor shall have been approved by the local liquor control
commissioner. All applications for licenses shall remain on file in the office
of the clerk to be listed in a record to be kept for this purpose. (Ord. 1341,
10-20-1986)
   (D)   Prior to the issuance or renewal of a license, the city building
official and the fire chief shall inspect and determine that the premises for
which the license is sought complies with the city's building and fire
regulations. The local liquor commissioner shall not issue or renew a license
until the city building official and the fire chief have certified that the
premises is in compliance with said regulations. (Ord. 2233, 4-3-2000)
5-13-18: TIME OF APPLICATION:
Application for a license or renewal of license shall be made to the mayor on
application blanks furnished to the city clerk. Such applications shall contain
sufficient information to enable the mayor to determine the eligibility of the
applicant for such license. Each application for renewal of a license issued
under this chapter shall be filed with the city clerk by April 1 of each year.
Each application for license or renewal shall be accompanied by the payment of
the annual fee prorated on the monthly basis from the date of filing the
application to May 1 next succeeding the filing of application. (Ord. 1095, 7-
6-1981; amd. Ord. 3208, 8-17-2020)
5-13-19: TEMPORARY LICENSE FOR THE ANNUAL CITY FAIR:
   (A)   Issuance Of License:
      1.   The local liquor control commissioner is hereby authorized to issue
two (2) licenses for the sale of "beer" and "wine" only as defined in this
chapter to a corporation chartered by the state as the corporation having as
its primary purpose the establishment, maintenance and operation of the
celebration commonly referred to as the Petunia Festival which has been
designated as the official city fair or, to the Dixon chamber of commerce for
the maintenance and operation of the celebration referred to in this
subsection.
      2.   Each license issued by this section shall be designated "city fair
license" and shall not exceed two (2) in number per calendar year. (Ord. 1611,
8-19-1991)
   (B)   Restrictions On Locations:
      1.   The licenses issued pursuant to this section may be issued for use
at the following premises:
         (a)   The premises owned by the Dixon park district provided said
premises are within the corporate limits of the city of Dixon and comply with
state statutes and local ordinances concerning location of authorized premises
with the exception of the ordinances on zoning;
         (b)   The premises owned by the city of Dixon and commonly known as
the Dixon Airport; or
         (c)   The parking lot owned by the city of Dixon and commonly known as
the Beanblossom Parking Lot. (Ord. 2788, 6-21-2010)
      2.   If the license authorized by subsection (B)1(a) of this section is
to be issued for the premises owned by the Dixon park district, such license
shall not be issued without the express written approval of the board of
commissioners of the Dixon park district as evidenced by the execution of a
valid lease to said premises by the licensee and the board of commissioners of
the Dixon park district.
      3.   If the license authorized by subsection (B)1(b) of this section is
to be issued for the premises known as the Dixon Airport, such license shall
not be issued without the express written approval of the Dixon airport board
as evidenced by the execution of a valid lease agreement to said premises
between the licensee and the Dixon airport board. (Ord. 1262, 4-1-1985)
      4.   The sale and consumption of beer and wine shall be confined to the
licensed premises.
      5.   All beer and wine sold shall be served only in disposable
containers. (Ord. 1431, 6-20-1988)
   (C)   Restriction On Period Of License For The Dixon Park District Premises:
The license issued for the premises owned by the Dixon park district shall be
issued for the limited period of the duration of the annual city fair as
determined by the liquor control commissioner in the issuance of the license
pursuant to subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 1262, 4-1-1985)
   (D)   Restrictions On Time Of Sale At The Dixon Park District Premises: For
the days designated as the city fair, the sale of beer and wine shall be
authorized from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
After that time all persons shall vacate the licensed premises with the
exception of those employees and agents of licensee who are delegated to
operate, control, maintain, and clean the premises. All beer and wine shall be
removed from the licensed premises no later than one hour after the closing
time on the days when sale of beer and wine is authorized. (Ord. 2539, 7-1-
2005)
   (E)   Restrictions On City Owned Locations:
      1.   Restrictions On Dixon Airport Premises: The Dixon airport board
shall establish such rules, regulations and restrictions, including the date,
time, place, location and such other limitations as it deems necessary to
govern the use of the premises for which the license to be used at the Dixon
Airport is issued. Such rules, regulations, and restrictions shall be
consistent with all federal, state, and city laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations and shall be incorporated in the lease agreement provided for in
subsection (B)3 of this section.
      2.   Restrictions On Beanblossom Parking Lot: The license issued for the
premises known as the Beanblossom Parking Lot shall be issued for one day only,
shall authorize the sale of beer and wine only, shall not permit the sale of
beer and wine later than six o'clock (6:00) P.M., and shall be limited by such
other rules, regulations and restrictions as the local liquor control
commissioner deems necessary to govern the use of the premises. (Ord. 2788, 6-
21-2010)
   (F)   Restrictions On Persons Of Nonage:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall purchase,
attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or wine or other alcoholic
beverage upon either licensed premises or other premises controlled by the
licensee during the license period. (Ord. 1431, 6-20-1988)
      2.   Persons of any age are authorized to be present on the licensed
premises issued as a city fair license under subsection (B)1(a) of this
section. Persons under the age of twenty one (21) are authorized to be present
on the premises licensed under subsection (B)1(c) of this section during the
time for which the temporary license has been granted for the purpose of
purchasing food and nonalcoholic beverages only. (Ord. 2788, 6-21-2010)
   (G)   Removal From Premises: Any duly authorized representative of licensee
and any peace officer of the city, county of Lee or Dixon park district are
hereby empowered to remove any person from either licensed premises where such
officer or agent has probable cause to believe that such person may be under
the influence of intoxicating beverages.
   (H)   Fee: The total annual fee for licenses shall be one dollar ($1.00).
(Ord. 1262, 4-1-1985)
   (I)   Construction: It is the intent of the city council that this section
of the liquor code be liberally construed for the express purpose of fulfilling
the intent of allowing the sale of beer and wine only at the city fair under
the restrictive terms provided herein. Unless specifically excepted within this
section all of the terms and provisions of this code remain in full force and
effect. (Ord. 1431, 6-20-1988)
5-13-19-5: TEMPORARY LICENSE FOR SALE AT DIXON RIVERFRONT/HERITAGE CROSSING:
   (A)   Issuance Of License:
      1.   Subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter, the local
liquor control commissioner is hereby authorized to issue a license to any
person or entity for the sale, transfer or giving away of alcoholic liquor in
the public area commonly known as the Dixon Riverfront/Heritage Crossing.
      2.   Each application for a license under this chapter shall include a
certificate of insurance evidencing dramshop insurance and a certificate of
insurance evidencing public liability insurance in an amount not less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for any one person or one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for any one accident. Said certificates of insurance
shall name the city of Dixon, its city council, officers, agents and employees
of the city, and the riverfront commission as an additional insured.
   (B)   Restrictions On Locations:
      1.   The license issued pursuant to this section may be issued for use
only at the public area owned by the city of Dixon and commonly known as the
Dixon Riverfront/Heritage Crossing. (Ord. 2796, 10-4-2010)
      2.   Any license authorized under subsection (A) of this section shall
not be issued without the applicant first having entered into a lease agreement
with the Dixon riverfront commission (or its successor if the city has
authorized any other entity to assume the day to day operations and management
of the Dixon Riverfront/Heritage Crossing). (Ord. 2941, 6-2-2014)
      3.   The sale, transfer and consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be
confined to the area defined in said lease, and the defined area must be
enclosed by fencing. The location, composition, design and construction of the
fence shall be approved by the mayor. No alcoholic liquor may be removed from
the enclosed area.
      4.   If alcoholic liquor is to be sold from the proposed licensed area,
the application must be countersigned by the holder of a valid liquor license
issued under sections
5-13-3 and
5-13-5 of this chapter. In such case, the restrictions on the type of alcoholic
liquor that may be sold under the holder's liquor license shall be applicable.
(Ord. 2796, 10-4-2010)
   (C)   Restriction On Period And Time Of Sale Of License: The license issued
under subsection (A) of this section shall be issued for one day only and for a
length of time as determined by the local liquor control commissioner.
Provided, however, under no circumstances shall alcoholic liquor be sold,
delivered, transferred, distributed or given away in the licensed area at times
other than as provided for in section
5-13-9 of this chapter or on Sundays from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. (Ord. 2941, 6-2-2014)
   (D)   Restrictions On Sale Or Transfer:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall purchase, attempt
to purchase, possess or consume any alcoholic liquor upon the licensed area.
      2.   No alcoholic liquor served in an open container may be removed from
the licensed area.
      3.   No sales or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may be made from the
licensed area to any person upon an adjoining property, public street, sidewalk
or alley.
      4.   Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may contain such other
restrictions as the local liquor control commissioner deems warranted to
protect the use and enjoyment of the area and of adjacent properties.
      5.   Adequate security must be provided by applicant. (Ord. 2796, 10-4-
2010)
   (E)   Restriction Of Riverfront Commission: The Dixon riverfront commission
(or its successor if the city has authorized any other entity to assume the day
to day operations and management of the Dixon Riverfront/Heritage Crossing)
shall establish rules, regulations, and restrictions governing use of the area
to be licensed. (Ord. 2941, 6-2-2014)
   (F)   Fee: The total fee for the license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   (G)   Violation: Any violation of this chapter shall also constitute grounds
for the suspension or revocation of the liquor license if the applicant is also
a license holder under this chapter.
   (H)   Suspension And Termination: The mayor or the chief of police shall
have the authority to immediately terminate or revoke the license granted under
this section if the mayor or the chief of police believes such action is
necessary to prohibit the disturbing the peace of others, to terminate
offensive conduct, or to protect the health, safety and welfare of those
present in the licensed area. (Ord. 2796, 10-4-2010)
5-13-20: CONDUCT IN OR UPON LICENSED PREMISES:
   (A)   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the city of Dixon
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
         (a)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
         (b)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling on the
breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals;
         (c)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breast, pubic hair,
anus, vulva or genitals;
         (d)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which is prohibited by subsection (A)1(a), (A)1(b), or (A)1(c)
of this section.
         (e)   The permitting by a licensee, his agent or employee of any
person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes to public view
any portion of his or her genitals or anus;
         (f)   The allowance by a licensee, his agent, or employee of any
person to perform, present, participate or direct in or upon the licensed
premises any play or dance or other performance which acts are prohibited by
subsection (A)1(a), (A)1(b) or (A)1(c) of this section. (Ord. 901, 5-16-1977)
   (B)   Tumultuous Conduct: No person shall disturb, tend to disturb, or aid
in disturbing the peace of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or
obstreperous conduct, and no person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon
any premises owned or possessed by him or under his control and licensed to
sell alcoholic liquor. All liquor licensees shall aid city police to quell the
aforesaid activities by reporting said conduct as soon as possible and shall
cooperate with city police in the investigation and prosecution of violators of
this title. (Ord. 1382, 9-21-1987)
   (C)   Suspension And Revocation Of Liquor License: If, at any time, after
the granting of a liquor license, any licensee shall have violated any of the
provisions of this code (and in particular, but not by way of limitation, any
provision of this chapter) or any statute of the state (and in particular, but
not by way of limitation, the liquor control act) in the conducting of the
licensee's business, the mayor may suspend or revoke the license therefor.
   (D)   Acts Of Agents Or Employees; Liability Of Licensee: Every act or
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this code or any of the provisions of the liquor control act by any officer,
director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed
and held to be the act of such licensee, and said licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by the
licensee. (Ord. 1463, 12-19-1988)
5-13-21: TRANSPORTING IN MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Except as provided in paragraph (C) and in Sections 6-6.5 and 6-33 of
the Liquor Control Act of 1934, no driver may transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor within the passenger area of any motor vehicle upon any
public way within the city except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken and except for the transport and delivery of cocktails and mixed
drinks by employees of a retail licensee in compliance with the provisions of
section
5-13-27.
   (B)   Except as provided in paragraph (C) and in Sections 6-6.5 and 6-33 of
the Liquor Control Act of 1934, no passenger may carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any motor vehicle upon any public
way within the city except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini motor home as
defined in Section 1-145.01 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. However, the driver
of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor
in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the
driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this
section. (Ord. 1095, 7-6-1981; amd. Ord. 3200, 6-15-2020; 2020 Code)
5-13-22: OUTDOOR SALES AND SEATING:
   (A)   Prohibited Sales: Except as otherwise provided in this section, no
outdoor sales of alcoholic liquor shall be carried on in connection with the
premises for which a license has been granted for the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon property contiguous to the licensed premises. (Ord. 2545,
8-1-2005)
   (B)   Outdoor Sales And Seating Permit: Each year the holder of a Class A,
A-1, B, B-1, D, or D-1 license may apply for an outdoor sales and seating
permit, or renewal thereof, to sell alcoholic liquor outside of the permanent
structure of the licensed premises for which the applicant's license has been
issued. The granting of an outdoor sales and seating permit is subject to the
following terms and conditions: (Ord. 2883, 7-16-2012)
      1.   The area in which such sales are conducted must be enclosed and
contiguous to and accessible only from the building where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is otherwise permitted.
      2.   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area must be from the
permanent structure only and no access shall be permitted from the street,
sidewalk or adjoining property unless approved by the Mayor at the time the
outdoor sales and seating permit is granted. (Ord. 2545, 8-1-2005)
      3.   The outdoor sales area shall be enclosed by fencing not less than
five feet (5') in height. The location, composition, design and construction of
the fence shall be approved by the Mayor and the Building Official. (Ord. 2883,
7-16-2012)
      4.   Except as provided in subsection (B)13 of this section, no music of
any kind may be played or broadcasted from the outdoor sales area after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. No music may be played or broadcasted within the adjacent
licensed premises which is of such volume so as to disturb the neighborhood in
any manner. (Ord. 2548, 10-3-2005)
      5.   No sales or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may be made from the
outdoor sales area to any person upon adjoining property, public street,
sidewalk or alley.
      6.   No alcoholic liquor served in an open container may be removed from
the outdoor sales area or the licensed premises.
      7.   Adequate security must be provided by the licensee. (Ord. 2545, 8-1-
2005)
      8.   The outdoor sales and seating permit shall be effective only from
May 1 to April 30 of each year. Applications for renewal of an outdoor sales
and seating permit must be filed on an annual basis. (Ord. 2548, 10-3-2005)
      9.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, delivered, transferred,
distributed or given away in the outdoor sales area by anyone except:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the following day.
         (b)   On Sundays from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, stricter hours of operation may be established
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner as part of the outdoor sales and
seating permit approval process.
      10.   All patrons of the outdoor area shall vacate the outdoor area no
later than thirty (30) minutes following the time specified in subsection (B)9
of this section.
      11.   No outdoor sales and seating permit shall be granted if the
proposed area is located within one hundred twenty feet (120') of residentially
zoned property, a school, or a church, as measured in a straight line from the
nearest property boundary of the residentially zoned property, school or
church. (Ord. 2545, 8-1-2005)
      12.   No outdoor sales and seating permit shall be granted unless the
Finance Director shall certify that there are no outstanding fines, fees, taxes
or other charges due and owing to the City by the owners of the real property
on which the proposed area is located or by the applicant. (Ord. 2545, 8-1-
2005; amd. Ord. 2887, 8-20-2012)
      13.   Upon approval of the application required by this subsection and
payment of a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee to the City, a temporary permit
may be issued to a permit holder to extend the time allowed for playing or
broadcasting music in the outdoor sales area from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to
either eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. or twelve thirty o'clock (12:30)
A.M., as may be approved by the Local Liquor Commissioner. Each temporary
permit issued hereunder shall be limited to a single outdoor event.
Applications shall be made with the Local Liquor Commissioner not less than
three (3) days prior to the date of the intended outdoor event. The applicant
shall include in the application the location and the specific time and date
for which the temporary permit is requested. No temporary permit shall issue
until the application therefor shall have been approved by the Local Liquor
Commissioner. All applications shall remain on file in the Office of the Clerk
to be listed in a record to be kept for this purpose. Holders of a temporary
permit shall not allow any unreasonably loud or raucous use or operation of a
loudspeaker, amplifier, public address system or other device, including
musical instruments, for producing or reproducing sound. Sound measured from
any location within five feet (5') of the boundary line of the property for
which the temporary permit is issued with a decibel meter set to A-weight that
exceeds ninety (90) decibels shall be deemed unreasonably loud and raucous and
shall subject the holder of the temporary permit to violation under subsection
(E) of this section. (Ord. 3029, 2-21-2017)
   (C)   Application:
      1.   Application for an outdoor sales and seating permit or renewal
thereof shall be submitted to the Mayor and shall include the following:
         (a)   A detailed drawing or sketch including the dimensions of the
proposed outdoor area where the outdoor sales will occur.
         (b)   The location of the tables and chairs to be used.
         (c)   The type of fencing materials and dimensions.
         (d)   The number of seats that will be in the outdoor area.
         (e)   A one hundred dollar ($100.00) nonrefundable filing fee.
         (f)   Proof of dramshop insurance coverage on the outdoor sales area,
consisting of a certificate of insurance including the outdoor sales area.
      2.   All applications shall be reviewed by the City Building Department
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter and with the City
building code. No outdoor sales and seating permit shall be issued or renewed
until the City Building Official has certified that the outdoor sales area is
in compliance with said requirements.
      3.   An outdoor sales and seating permit granted herein may contain such
other conditions as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems warranted to
protect the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties.
      4.   The Mayor shall be the approving authority.
   (D)   Display: The outdoor sales and seating permit shall be displayed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Violation:
      1.   Any outdoor sales and seating permit issued pursuant to this section
may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this chapter or any of the
provisions of this Code.
      2.   Any suspension of violation shall be conducted pursuant to this
chapter.
      3.   Any violation of this section shall also constitute grounds for the
suspension or revocation of the liquor license for the adjacent premises. (Ord.
2545, 8-1-2005)
5-13-23: OUTDOOR SIDEWALK CAFE:
   (A)   Outdoor Sidewalk Cafe Permit:
      1.   An outdoor sidewalk cafe permit shall be required to operate an
outdoor sidewalk cafe. An "outdoor sidewalk cafe" shall mean a portion of an
immobile retail food establishment located on a public right-of-way directly
adjacent to the retail food establishment. The granting of an outdoor sidewalk
cafe permit shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
subsection (B) of this section.
      2.   The permit area shall be that portion of the public right- of-way as
delineated and approved on the permit application and restricted to a portion
of the right-of-way which is located between the curb line on the lateral line
of the street and the adjacent property line, excluding any area required for
use by pedestrians.
   (B)   Terms And Conditions: The granting of an outdoor sidewalk cafe permit
shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Proof that the applicant holds a valid retail food establishment
license issued to the establishment that will provide food for the outdoor
sidewalk cafe.
      2.   There shall be no live entertainment, amplified music, or
mechanically amplified sound of any nature whatsoever within the permit area.
      3.   The permit shall be effective only from May 1 to October 31 of each
year. Applications for renewal of an outdoor sidewalk cafe permit shall be
filed on an annual basis.
      4.   Stoves, ovens, hot plates, beverage coolers and similar restaurant
equipment shall not be placed within the permit area.
      5.   No privately owned trash cans or electrical outlets shall be placed
within the permit area. The permittee shall be solely responsible for
maintaining the permit area in a clean and sanitary condition. The permittee
shall immediately remove trash or debris resulting from the operation of the
outdoor sidewalk cafe and shall collect and properly dispose of such debris as
may be scattered from the permit area by patrons or weather conditions.
      6.   The permit area and adjoining sidewalks shall remain clear of
litter, food scraps and soiled dishes at all times. Sidewalks and flooring
areas must be cleaned daily, including adjacent sidewalk areas.
      7.   The outdoor sidewalk cafe shall not open before eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. All patrons of the outdoor sidewalk cafe shall vacate the permit area
no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      8.   No alcoholic beverages may be served unless the outdoor sidewalk
cafe permit was issued under subsection (D) of this section. (Ord. 2644, 6-18-
2007)
      9.   No permit shall be granted unless the Finance Director certifies
that there are no outstanding fines, fees, taxes or other charges due and owing
to the City by the applicant or by the owners of the real property on which the
proposed area is located. (Ord. 2644, 6-18-2007; amd. Ord. 2887, 8-20-2012)
   (C)   Prohibited Sales: Except as otherwise provided in subsection (D) of
this section, the outdoor sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon public
sidewalks contiguous to a licensed premises is prohibited. (Ord. 2644, 6-18-
2007)
   (D)   Outdoor Sidewalk Cafe Permit Allowing The Sale Or Permitting The
Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor: Each holder of a Class A, A-1, B, B-1, D, or
D-1 license may apply for an outdoor sidewalk cafe permit, or renewal thereof,
to sell alcoholic liquor outside on the public sidewalk immediately adjacent to
the permanent structure of the licensed premises for which the applicant's
license has been issued, and each holder of a Class N license may apply for an
outdoor sidewalk cafe permit, or renewal thereof, to permit consumption of beer
or wine only brought onto the premises by a patron for personal consumption
while being served a meal in the establishment. In addition to the terms and
conditions contained in subsection (B) of this section, the granting of an
outdoor sidewalk cafe permit to the holder of a liquor license is also subject
to the following terms and conditions: (Ord. 2713, 10-20-2008)
      1.   The applicant must have a valid liquor license issued under this
Code and must provide food service in the licensed area.
      2.   All ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area from the sidewalk
must be approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time the
outdoor sidewalk cafe permit is granted.
      3.   The area in which such sales are conducted must be enclosed and
contiguous to the building where the sale of alcoholic liquor is otherwise
permitted. The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the permit area
shall be restricted by the liquor license governing the applicant.
      4.   The outdoor sales area shall be enclosed by a rope, fence or other
similar barrier at least thirty six inches (36") in height and have an access
opening within the barrier of not less than forty four inches (44") in width.
The location, composition, design and construction of the fence shall be
approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the Building Official.
      5.   No sales or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may be made from the
permit area to any person upon adjoining property, public street, sidewalk or
alley.
      6.   No alcoholic liquor served in an open container may be removed from
the permit area or the licensed premises. (Ord. 2644, 6-18-2007)
      7.   Beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages may be served or consumed
at an outdoor sidewalk cafe provided that the alcoholic beverage is purchased
from the outdoor sidewalk cafe, the purchaser is seated at a table, and the
alcoholic beverage is served and consumed with food ordered from a menu,
prepared and served for pay by the outdoor sidewalk cafe permittee. Provided,
however, the origin, consumption, and types of alcoholic beverages and
containers permitted at an outdoor sidewalk cafe for holders of Class N
licenses are governed by subsection
 5-13-5(S) of this chapter. (Ord. 2732, 4-6-2009)
      8.   No patron may have more than one (1) alcoholic drink at any one (1)
time.
      9.   All alcoholic beverages must be served in plastic or glass
containers or aluminum cans. No bottles, taps, kegs, coolers or other alcoholic
beverage storage devices shall be allowed in the permit area.
      10.   Adequate security must be provided by the licensee.
      11.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, delivered, transferred,
distributed or given away in the outdoor sales area after nine thirty o'clock
(9:30) P.M. All patrons shall vacate the permit area no later than ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
      12.   Stricter hours of operation and such other conditions as the local
liquor control commissioner deems necessary to protect the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties may be required by the local liquor control commissioner as
a condition of granting an outdoor sidewalk cafe permit which allows the sale
of alcoholic liquor as permitted under this subsection (D).
   (E)   Permit Application:
      1.   Application for an outdoor sidewalk cafe permit or renewal thereof
shall be submitted to the mayor and shall include the following:
         (a)   A detailed drawing or sketch including the dimensions of the
proposed outdoor area where the outdoor sales will occur with measurements
including a representation showing that at least five feet (5') of unobstructed
sidewalk space will remain for pedestrians.
         (b)   The location and number of tables and chairs to be used. The
application shall state the type of furniture that will be used.
         (c)   The type of fencing materials and dimensions.
         (d)   A nonrefundable filing fee in an amount as may be established
from time to time by the mayor.
         (e)   A certificate of insurance evidencing commercial general
liability insurance with limits of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) per occurrence, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the
aggregate combined single limit, for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage liability. The city of Dixon shall be named as an additional
insured on a primary, noncontributory basis for any liability arising directly
or indirectly from the operations of an outdoor sidewalk cafe and shall provide
that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date
without thirty (30) days' advance written notice to the city. Proof of such
insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state
of Illinois, shall be delivered prior to the issuance of an outdoor sidewalk
cafe permit.
         (f)   Outdoor sidewalk cafes that are authorized to sell alcoholic
beverages must also provide proof of dramshop insurance coverage on the permit
area.
         (g)   The application shall demonstrate that the outdoor sidewalk cafe
will not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian flow, access to the building
entrances, pedestrian and traffic safety, and the aesthetic quality of the
surrounding area.
         (h)   Applicants having an A or A-1 liquor license shall provide proof
that the applicant has a full service, fully equipped kitchen intended,
designed and used in the preparation of meals, other than only a counter with a
hot plate, microwave oven or similar warming device.
      2.   All applications shall be reviewed by the city building department
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter and with the city
building code. No outdoor sidewalk cafe permit shall be issued or renewed until
the city building official has certified that the outdoor sales area is in
compliance with said requirements.
      3.   The following standards shall be applicable within the permit area:
         (a)   All barrier material must be maintained in good visual
appearance.
         (b)   All furniture other than tables, chairs and umbrellas is
prohibited. Furniture and fixtures must not be secured to street signs,
hydrants or any other street infrastructure. Tables and chairs are not
permitted to be white plastic. All chairs used within a particular permit area
must match each other by being of visually similar design, construction and
color. Umbrellas must be contained within the permit area; all advertisements
on umbrellas must be approved by the city building official.
         (c)   Sectional fencing must be of metal or wood construction. Such
fencing must be portable and freestanding without any permanent or temporary
attachment to the sidewalks. Fabric inserts of any size are not permitted. The
use of chainlink, cyclone fencing, chicken wire or similar appurtenances is
prohibited.
      4.   The mayor shall be the approving authority of all permit requests.
Any permit for an outdoor sidewalk cafe may contain such conditions as the
mayor, or his designee, deems warranted to protect the use for adjacent right
of way for its intended purpose and to otherwise carry out the purpose and
intent of this section and this code.
      5.   The mayor shall have the authority to promulgate regulations to
carry out the purpose of this section, including, without limitation,
regulations governing location, arrangement, design, types of food and
beverages, landscaping and other aesthetic components, the safety of
pedestrians and auto traffic, the prevention of an excessive number of outdoor
sidewalk cafes, and any other matter pertaining to this section. All permittees
shall comply with the regulations promulgated pursuant to this section which
shall have the full force and effect of a city ordinance.
      6.   An outdoor sidewalk cafe permit shall be for the exclusive use of
the licensed retail food establishment stated on the application. Sharing or
joint use of the outdoor sidewalk cafe location by more than one retail food
establishment shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Display: The outdoor sidewalk cafe permit shall be displayed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Termination: To the extent that a permit area is needed by the city
for sidewalk purposes, or any other public purpose, the mayor may immediately
terminate the permit and assume full possession and control of the permit area.
In such an event, the city shall be authorized to remove all furniture and
other objects of the permittee from the permit area.
   (H)   Violation:
      1.   Any outdoor sidewalk cafe permit issued pursuant to this section may
be suspended or revoked for any violation of this chapter or any of the
provisions of this code.
      2.   Any suspension for violation shall be conducted pursuant to this
chapter.
      3.   Any violation of this section shall also constitute grounds for the
suspension or revocation of the liquor license of the applicant. (Ord. 2644, 6-
18-2007)
5-13-24: DIXON WELCOME CENTER:
   (A)   The city council does hereby authorize and permit the sale of wine
only for consumption off the premises by the tourism development board from the
property having a common address of 106 W. River Street, Dixon, Illinois, and
known as the Dixon Welcome Center.
   (B)   The sale of said wine is permitted during the following periods of
time on the following days:
      1.   Mondays through Saturdays from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.; and
      2.   Sundays from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   (C)   The welcome center may be open to the public during other times but
shall not be permitted to sell wine other than the times set forth in
subsection (B) of this section.
   (D)   The sale of wine to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
is expressly prohibited.
   (E)   Only persons twenty one (21) years of age or older may sell said wine
from the premises.
   (F)   The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to issue a liquor
license designated as a "city license" to the tourism development board for the
premises located at 106 W. River Street, Dixon, Illinois, and is further
authorized and directed to apply for a state liquor license with the Illinois
liquor commission for said premises. (Ord. 2749, 7-20-2009)
5-13-25: SALES BY LICENSEES AT LOCATIONS OTHER THAN LICENSED PREMISES:
   (A)   Temporary License: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, either: 1) a holder of a class A, A-1, B, B-1, C, C-1, D or D-
1 license, or 2) the holder of a license equivalent or substantially equivalent
to the foregoing issued by Lee County and whose licensed premises are connected
to city water or sewer service, may be issued a temporary license for sales of
alcoholic beverages at off premises locations in conjunction with a religious,
charitable, civic, educational or literary event to be held within the
corporate limits of the city. Applications for such temporary license shall be
made with the mayor at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the
intended sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages and shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2974, 8-17-2015)
   (B)   Provisions: A temporary license issued under this section may be
issued for a period not to exceed one day and shall be subject to the
provisions of sections
5-13-8,
5-13-9, and
5-13-10 of this chapter regarding the locations and time of sale, unless the
Liquor Commissioner further restricts the location and/or time of sale. Sunday
sales may be permitted under such license.
   (C)   Application: In addition to any other requirements contained in an
application for a liquor license, the applicant shall include the following
information:
      1.   A description of the location and premises for which the license is
sought;
      2.   A copy of an agreement or other written authority for the licensee's
use of the location if the applicant is not the owner of the location;
      3.   A statement setting forth the purpose for the issuance of said
license, to include a description of the intended function or event;
      4.   A statement setting forth the applicant's arrangements for security
and crowd control;
      5.   A certificate of insurance showing evidence of dramshop and
liability insurance coverage for the premises for which the temporary license
is requested;
      6.   A request for a specific time and date for the term of said license.
(Ord. 2809, 1-3-2011)
   (D)   Fees: The fee for such a temporary license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each calendar day or part thereof for which the license is issued
and shall be paid in full at the time that the license is issued.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for events where less than fifty dollars
($50.00) in retail cost of alcoholic beverages are to be sold, the fee shall be
five dollars ($5.00) for each calendar day or part thereof for which the
license is issued. (Ord. 2986, 12-21-2015)
   (E)   Underage Persons: Persons under the age of twenty one (21) are
permitted to be present on the premises during the time for which the temporary
license has been granted for the purpose of purchasing food or nonalcoholic
beverages only and only if accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (F)   Display: The license issued under this section shall be prominently
displayed. (Ord. 2809, 1-3-2011)
5-13-26: DIXON THEATRE EVENT VENUE:
   (A)   Temporary License: The holder of a Class A, A-1, B, B-1, C, C-1, D or
D-1 license may be issued a temporary license for the sales of alcoholic
beverages at the Dixon Theatre. Application for such temporary license shall be
made with the Mayor at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date or dates of
the intended sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages and shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2811, 1-18-2011)
   (B)   Provisions: A temporary license for any such licensee for the sale or
distribution of alcoholic beverages at the Dixon Theatre may be issued for a
period not to exceed four (4) days and shall be subject to the provisions of
sections
5-13-9 and
5-13-10 of this chapter regarding such sales or distributions unless the Liquor
Commissioner further restricts the time of sale. Such temporary license may be
issued to any such licensee for the Dixon Theatre notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection
5-13-8(A) of this chapter restricting the sale and retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of certain specified institutions. Sunday
sales may be permitted under a license issued pursuant to the terms of this
chapter. No such temporary license may be issued under this section except in
conjunction with functions or events to be held at the Dixon Theatre. (Ord.
3058, 9-18-2017)
   (C)   Application: In addition to any other requirements contained in an
application for a liquor license, the applicant shall include the following
information:
      1.   A copy of an agreement, lease, or other written authority from the
Dixon Theatre for the licensee's use of the Dixon Theatre; (Ord. 2811, 1-18-
2011)
      2.   A statement describing the purpose for the issuance of said license,
to include a description of the intended functions or events; (Ord. 3058, 9-18-
2017)
      3.   A statement setting forth the applicant's arrangements for security
and crowd control;
      4.   A certificate of insurance showing dramshop and liability insurance
for the Dixon Theatre incident to the issuance of the temporary license; (Ord.
2811, 1-18-2011)
      5.   The specific times and dates for the term of said license. (Ord.
3058, 9-18-2017)
   (D)   Display: The license under this section shall be prominently displayed
on site at the Dixon Theatre during the term of the license. (Ord. 2811, 1-18-
2011)
5-13-27: DELIVERY AND CARRY OUT OF MIXED DRINKS:
   (A)   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection (a),
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                         Any beverage obtained by combining ingredients
                         alcoholic in nature, whether brewed, fermented, or
COCKTAIL OR MIXED DRINK: distilled, with ingredients non-alcoholic in nature,
                         such as fruit juice, lemonade, cream, or a carbonated
                         beverage.
                         A container that is filled, sealed, and secured by a
ORIGINAL CONTAINER:      retail licensee's employee at the retail licensee's
                         location with a tamper-evident lid or cap.
RETAIL LICENSEE:         Any establishment holding a valid Class A, A-1, C, C-
                         1, D, or D-1 liquor license issued by the city.
                         A rigid container that contains a mixed drink, is new,
                         has never been used, has a secured lid or cap designed
                         to prevent consumption without removal of the lid or
SEALED CONTAINER:        cap, and is tamper-evident. "Sealed container" does
                         not include a container with a lid with sipping holes
                         or openings for straw or a container made of plastic,
                         paper, or polystyrene foam.
                         A lid or cap that has been sealed with tamper-evident
TAMPER-EVIDENT:          covers, including, but not limited to, wax dip or heat
                         shrink wrap.
 
   (B)   Sale Of Mixed Drinks: A cocktail or mixed drink placed in a sealed
container by a retail licensee at the retail licensee's location may be
transferred and sold for off-premises consumption if the following requirements
are met:
      1.   The cocktail is transferred within the licensed premises, by a
curbside pickup, or by delivery by an employee of the retail licensee who:
         (a)   Has been trained in accordance with the provisions of Section 6-
27.1 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5/6-27.1);
         (b)   Is at least twenty-one (21) years of age; and
         (c)   Upon delivery, verifies the age of the person to whom the
cocktail is being delivered;
      2.   If the employee delivering the cocktail is not able to safely verify
a person's age or level of intoxication upon delivery, the employee shall
cancel the sale of alcohol and return the product to the retail licensee;
      3.   The sealed container is placed in the trunk of the vehicle or if
there is no trunk, in the vehicle's rear compartment that is not readily
accessible to the passenger area;
      4.   The sealed container shall be affixed with a label or tag that
contains the following information:
         (a)   The cocktail or mixed drink ingredients, type, and name of
alcohol;
         (b)   The name, license number, and address of the retail licensee
that filled the original container and sold the product and the date sold;
         (c)   The volume of the cocktail or mixed drink in the sealed
container; and
         (d)   The sealed container was filled less than seven (7) days before
the date of sale.
   (C)   Compliance With Executive Orders: If there is an executive order of
the Governor of the State of Illinois in effect during a disaster, the employee
delivering the mixed drink or cocktail must comply with any requirements of
that executive order, including, but not limited to, wearing gloves and a mask
and maintaining distancing requirements when interacting with the public.
   (D)   Limitations: Cocktails or mixed drinks may not be sold or delivered,
and the authorizations of this section do not permit such sale or delivery if:
      1.   A third party not employed by the retail licensee delivers the
cocktail or mixed drink;
      2.   A container of a mixed drink or cocktail is not tamper-evident and
sealed;
      3.   A container of a mixed drink or cocktail is to be transported in the
passenger area of a vehicle;
      4.   A mixed drink or cocktail is delivered by a person or to a person
who is under the age of twenty-one (21); or
      5.   The person delivering a mixed drink or cocktail fails to verify the
age of the person to whom the mixed drink or cocktail is being delivered.
   (E)   Violations: Any violations of this section shall be subject to any
applicable penalties, including, but not limited to, the penalties specified
under Section 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-1 et. seq.) and
the penalties contained within this chapter.
   (F)   This section shall be effective beginning on and after June 1, 2020
and shall expire on June 1, 2021 unless further extended by ordinance approved
by the city council and mayor. (Ord. 3200, 6-15-2020)
CHAPTER 14
AMUSEMENTS
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 15
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
5-15-1: Definitions
5-15-2: License Required
5-15-3: Application For License
5-15-4: License
5-15-5: Unobstructed View
5-15-6: Gambling
5-15-7: Distributor's License And Fees
5-15-8: Operator Of Amusement Center License And Fee
5-15-9: Operator's License And Fee
5-15-10: Revocation Of License
5-15-11: Penalty
5-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                 Any one place containing more than three (3)
                                 mechanical amusement devices set up or placed
                                 together in one location by an "operator of an
AMUSEMENT CENTER:                amusement center" as defined in and licensed
                                 by this chapter. Expressly excluded from this
                                 definition is any premises for which a liquor
                                 license has been issued pursuant to chapter 13
                                 of this title.
                                 Any person who owns mechanical amusement
DISTRIBUTOR:                     devices for use in the business of a separate
                                 person.
                                 Any machine which upon insertion of money or a
                                 slug operates or may be operated as a game or
                                 contest of skill or amusement of any
                                 description and which contains no automatic
                                 payoff device for the payment of money,
                                 merchandise or other items of value except the
                                 awarding of free plays according to an
                                 indicator upon the machine, and which in
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE:     itself does not constitute a gambling device.
                                 The term shall also include any machine or
                                 apparatus which is operated by projecting a
                                 ball up a sloping board with a plunger
                                 operated from outside a cabinet containing the
                                 board, and the ball then being made to roll
                                 downward and rebound among electrical fixtures
                                 that light or ring upon being touched by the
                                 ball and thereby recording a number of points
                                 and commonly known as a "pinball machine".
                                 As used in this chapter, is any person who
                                 either (a) sets up for use three (3) or less
                                 mechanical amusement devices in his, her or
                                 its place of business where such device
OPERATOR:                        belongs to such person or to a licensed
                                 distributor, or (b) would satisfy the
                                 definition of an "operator of an amusement
                                 center" except that the premises has been
                                 issued a liquor license pursuant to chapter 13
                                 of this title.
                                 Any person who sets up for use more than three
                                 (3) mechanical amusement devices in his, her
OPERATOR OF AN AMUSEMENT CENTER: or its place of business where such devices
                                 belong to such person or to a licensed
                                 distributor.
                                 Any person, firm, partnership, limited
PERSON:                          liability company, corporation or other
                                 entity. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-1982; amd. Ord. 1613,
                                 8-19-1991; Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
 
5-15-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall be an operator, an operator of an amusement center, or a
distributor without first having obtained the license for that purpose. No
operator or operator of an amusement center shall set up a mechanical amusement
device belonging to such person unless a license has been issued for the number
of devices authorized to be placed upon the person's property pursuant to
section
5-15-4 of this chapter. No operator or operator of an amusement center shall
set up a mechanical amusement device belonging to a licensed distributor
unless: a) a license is first issued to a distributor, and b) a license has
been issued for the number of devices authorized to be placed upon the
operator's or the operator of an amusement center's property pursuant to
section
5-15-4 of this chapter. The license issued hereunder shall be nontransferable
and nonassignable and shall be prominently displayed upon the premises where
the machines are operated. (Ord. 1192, 8-1-1983; amd. Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license shall be made in writing to the mayor, and said
application shall set forth the full name of the applicant, the address, the
location and character of the building or place where the mechanical amusement
devices are to be located, whether such devices belong to the operator or the
operator of an amusement center or to a distributor, and the number of such
devices. Any application for a license under this chapter shall include the
names and addresses of all partners, if the proposed licensee is a partnership,
and shall include the names and addresses of all owners, officers and directors
if such proposed licensee is a limited liability company, corporation or other
entity. Upon receipt of the application accompanied by the proper license fee
as herein provided, the chief of police shall investigate the character of the
applicant, the premises in which it is proposed to carry on the business of the
applicant, and the type of machine to be used. The chief of police shall then
transmit the results of his or her investigation to the mayor, together with
his or her recommendation as to the granting or denial of such license.
Additionally, prior to the issuance of any license, the city building official
and the fire chief shall inspect and determine that any premises for which the
license is sought complies with the city's building and fire codes and
regulations. The mayor shall not issue a license until the city building
official and the fire chief have certified that the premises is in compliance
with said codes and regulations. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-1982; amd. Ord. 3354, 6-5-
2023)
5-15-4: LICENSE
The city clerk, upon the mayor's approval of the application, shall issue a
license stating the number of mechanical amusement devices licensed hereunder
and authorized to be distributed within the municipal limits by a distributor
annually to the distributor. The city clerk, upon the mayor's approval of the
application, shall issue a license stating the number of mechanical amusement
devices licensed hereunder and authorized to be present upon the property of
the operator or the operator of an amusement center annually to the operator or
the operator of an amusement center. Prior to the issuance of said license, all
license and annual fees shall be paid and evidence of ownership shall be filed
with the clerk, and the location of the operation of the devices. The license
of the distributor shall be retained by the distributor at his, her or its
place of business. The license of the operator or operator of an amusement
center indicating the number of machines permitted on the property shall be
prominently displayed in such person's place of business. (Ord. 1192, 8-1-1983;
amd. Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-5: UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW:
All mechanical amusement devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain
view of all persons who may frequent or be in any place of business or other
place where such devices are kept or used. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-1982; amd. Ord.
3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-6: GAMBLING:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or license any
gambling service of any nature whatsoever which is prohibited by the provisions
of this code or of the laws of the state and no mechanical amusement device
shall be used in any manner whatsoever for gambling. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-1982;
amd. Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-7: DISTRIBUTOR'S LICENSE AND FEES:
   (A)   Any person having a distributor's license shall be responsible for
reporting to the city clerk the list of the mechanical amusement devices that
are licensed and the places that such devices are located in operation. Said
list shall be filed semiannually with the city clerk.
   (B)   The annual fee for a license as a distributor is the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum beginning May 1 of each calendar year and
payable annually in advance. Commencing January 1, 2024, said fee shall be
increased to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per annum.
   (C)   In addition to subsection (B) of this section, a distributor shall pay
a fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per mechanical amusement device per annum
payable in advance for each device operated or set up for operation. Commencing
January 1, 2024, said fee shall be increased to forty-five dollars ($45.00) per
device.
   (D)   No distributor shall set up for operation, lease or distribute more
than two hundred (200) mechanical amusement devices at any one time upon any
license granted herein.
   (E)   In the event that a distributor shall increase the total number of
mechanical amusement devices distributed within the city limits after May 1 of
each year, then said distributor shall be responsible for reporting to the city
clerk a list of the increased number of devices that are located within the
city and placed in operation for which an additional thirty dollars ($30.00)
per device prorated in accordance with the remainder of the year shall be paid
to the clerk. Commencing January 1, 2024, said additional fee shall be
increased to forty-five dollars ($45.00) per device. (Ord. 1192, 8-1-1983; amd.
Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-8: OPERATOR OF AMUSEMENT CENTER LICENSE AND FEE:
   (A)   No person shall set up, operate or control an amusement center without
first having obtained an amusement center license. No person shall set up,
operate or control an amusement center with mechanical amusement devices
belonging to a separate person without such separate person having first
obtained a distributor's license for such devices to be used in the amusement
center.
   (B)   The annual license fee for an operator of an amusement center shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum payable in advance beginning May 1 of
each calendar year. Commencing January 1, 2024, said fee shall be increased to
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per annum. In addition, each operator of an
amusement center shall pay a fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per annum payable
in advance for each mechanical amusement device operated or set up for
operation on the premises of such person. Commencing January 1, 2024, said fee
shall be increased to forty-five dollars ($45.00) per device. Public
governmental bodies are exempt from the payment of the fees as outlined in this
subsection.
   (C)   In the event that an operator shall increase the total number of
amusement devices operated in his, her or its place of business after May 1 of
each year, then said operator shall be responsible for reporting to the city
clerk a list of the increased number of devices placed in operation in his, her
or its business for which an additional thirty dollars ($30.00) prorated in
accordance with the remainder of the year shall be paid to the clerk.
Commencing January 1, 2024, said additional fee shall be increased to forty-
five dollars ($45.00) per device. Public governmental bodies are exempt from
the payment of the fees as outlined in this subsection. (Ord. 1192, 8-1-1983;
amd. Ord. 1219, 4-23-1984; Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-9: OPERATOR'S LICENSE AND FEE:
   (A)   No person shall set up for use or control of a mechanical amusement
device in his, her or its place of business without having first obtained an
operator's license. No person shall set up for use or control of a mechanical
amusement device belonging to a separate person without such separate person
having first obtained a distributor's license for the devices to be used in
his, her or its place of business.
   (B)   Each operator shall pay a fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per
mechanical amusement device per annum payable in advance on May 1 of each year
for each device operated or set up for operation in his, her or its place of
business. Commencing January 1, 2024, said fee shall be increased to forty-five
dollars ($45.00) per device. Public governmental bodies are exempt from the
payment of the fees as outlined in this subsection.
   (C)   In the event that an operator shall increase the total number of
mechanical amusement devices operated in his, her or its place of business
after May 1 of each year, then said operator shall be responsible for reporting
to the city clerk a list of the increased number of devices placed in operation
in his, her or its business for which an additional thirty dollars ($30.00) per
device prorated in accordance with the remainder of the year shall be paid to
the clerk. Commencing January 1, 2024, said additional fee shall be increased
to forty-five dollars ($45.00) per device. Public governmental bodies are
exempt from the payment of the fees as outlined in this subsection. (Ord. 1192,
8-1-1983; amd. Ord. 1219, 4-23-1984; Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same. Should the licensee permit
the operation of any mechanical amusement device contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, the ordinances of the city, or the laws of the state of Illinois,
said license may be revoked by the mayor following notice and an opportunity to
be heard. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-1982; amd. Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
5-15-11: PENALTY:
Any licensee, operator, operator of an amusement center, distributor, or any
employee or agent of the same, who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day the
violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 1133, 4-30-
1982; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 3354, 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 16
(Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
CHAPTER 17
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-17-1: Declaration Of Policy
5-17-2: Definitions
5-17-3: (Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
5-17-4: Prohibited Acts
5-17-5: Limitations
5-17-6: Procedures
5-17-7: Penalties
5-17-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city in the exercise of its
police power for the protection of the public safety, public health, public
morals, and its power to license and regulate brokers and salesmen for the
maintenance of business and good government and for the promotion of the city's
trade, commerce and manufacturers to assure equal opportunity to all persons to
live in decent housing facilities regardless of race, color, religion, sex,
creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, or
familial status and to that end to prohibit discrimination in housing and in
real estate transactions. (Ord. 2139, 3-1-1999; amd. 2020 Code)
5-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
REAL ESTATE: Any building, structure or portion thereof in the city which is
used or occupied as a home, residence, sleeping place of one or more persons,
place of business or office, but such term shall not include rooms for rental
to one or two (2) persons in a single-family dwelling, the remainder of which
is occupied by: a) the owner or members of his immediate family, or b) the
lessee of the entire dwelling or members of his immediate family.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR REAL ESTATE SALESMAN: Any natural person, partnership,
association or corporation, or agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable
consideration sells, purchases, exchanges, rents (or offers or negotiates to do
any of the foregoing) real property of another, or holds himself out as engaged
in the business of doing any of the foregoing, or manages and collects rental
from the real property of another.
UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICE: Any difference in treatment in the sale, lease, rental
or financing of housing accommodations because of race, color, religion, sex,
creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, or
familial status. (Ord. 600, 10-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2139, 3-1-1999; 2020 Code)
5-17-3: (Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
5-17-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No owner of real estate, lessee, subleasee, real estate broker or salesman,
lender, financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any of the foregoing,
shall discriminate against any other person because of the religion, race,
color, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status of such other person or because of the religion,
race, color, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status of the friends or associates of such other
person, in regard to the sale or rental of, or dealings concerning real estate.
Any such discrimination shall be considered an unfair housing practice. Without
limiting the foregoing it shall also be an unfair housing practice and unlawful
for any real estate broker, real estate salesman or other person to:
   (A)   Publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign
or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of any
real estate which will indicate or express any such discrimination.
   (B)   Discriminate in price for any person for real estate because of race,
color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status.
   (C)   Solicit for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, of any real
estate on the ground of loss of value due to the present or prospective entry
into any neighborhood of any person or persons of any particular race, color,
religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status.
   (D)   Make, distribute or cause to be made or distributed any written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of real estate to sell or
lease his property because of any present or prospective change in the race,
color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status.
   (E)   Refuse to sell, lease or rent, any real estate because of the race,
color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status of the proposed buyer or tenant.
   (F)   Refuse examination of copies of any listing of real estate to any
financially qualified person because of race, color, religion, sex, creed,
ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, or familial
status.
   (G)   Enter into a listing agreement which prohibits the sale, or rental of
real estate to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, creed,
ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, or familial
status.
   (H)   Act or undertake to act with respect to any real estate, the
disposition of which is prohibited to any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, physical or mental
disability, or familial status. (Ord. 2139, 3-1-1999; amd. 2020 Code)
5-17-5: LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to
the public at large before selling or renting it, nor shall this chapter be
deemed to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or
buyers for any reason other than religion, race, color, sex, creed, ancestry,
national origin, age, physical or mental disability, or familial status. (Ord.
2139, 3-1-1999)
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property for
sale or lease or rental to any person if the owner has any reason to believe
that such person is not negotiating for the purchase, lease or rental thereof
in good faith. (Ord. 600, 10-22-1968; amd. 2020 Code)
5-17-6: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   File Written Complaint: Any person aggrieved in any manner by a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall file a written complaint
setting forth his grievances with the fair housing board within fifteen (15)
days after the alleged offense. Said complaint shall state the name and address
of the complainant and of the person or persons against whom the complaint is
brought and shall also state the alleged facts surrounding the alleged
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1151, 9-20-1982)
   (B)   Investigation: After the filing of the complaint, the fair housing
board shall make a prompt investigation in connection therewith, and if the
fair housing board shall determine after such investigation that proper cause
exists for the allegations of the complaint, it shall immediately endeavor to
eliminate the unlawful practice complained of by conference, conciliation and
persuasion. In case of failure so to eliminate such practice, or in advance
thereof, if in the judgment of the fair housing board, circumstances so
warrant, it shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the fair housing
board, a written notice, together with a copy of such complaint, to all
parties, of a full hearing of the complaint, at a time and place to be
specified in such notice. Any party charged with having engaged in an unfair
housing practice shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint, to
appear at the hearing in person, and be represented by counsel, and to submit
testimony. The complainant shall also be allowed to present testimony in person
and may be represented by counsel.
   (C)   Nondisclosure: The members of the fair housing board and its staff are
prohibited from disclosing to the public the filing of a complaint, or what
transpires during the course of investigation of a complaint. All other matters
shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Hearing: Such hearing shall be conducted by the fair housing board,
which shall be bound by the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of
law or equity. The board shall have full power to subpoena witnesses and
pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by the board by proper
petition to the circuit court of Lee County. The board shall have power to
administer oath and to take sworn testimony. At the conclusion of the hearings,
the board shall render a written report and recommendations which shall be
served by mail upon the parties. No report shall be delayed more than sixty
(60) days after the date of the issuance of notice for commencement of the
first hearing. (Ord. 600, 10-22-1968)
5-17-7: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any complainant or respondent may apply for and obtain judicial review
of any order of the fair housing board issued pursuant to section
5-17-6 of this chapter, including a refusal to issue an order in accordance
with the provisions of the "administrative review act" (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq.), and all amendments and modifications thereof; and in the event the order
is affirmed, the fair housing board may obtain an order of the court for its
enforcement in the same proceeding.
   (B)   Whenever the fair housing board, after hearings as set forth in
section
5-17-6 of this chapter, shall be of the opinion that any person has violated an
order of the board issued pursuant to section
5-17-6 of this chapter, the fair housing board may commence an action in the
name of the people of the city in the circuit court of Lee County, by petition,
alleging the violation, attaching a copy of the order of the board, and praying
for appropriate relief. The court shall have jurisdiction of the proceedings
and shall have power to grant such temporary relief or restraining order,
permanent restraining order and such other relief as it may deem just and
proper. The provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/1-
1 et seq.), including the provisions for appeal, and all existing and future
amendments of said code and modifications thereof and the rules now or
hereafter adopted pursuant to the same, shall apply to all proceedings
instituted in such circuit court by the fair housing board.
   (C)   The fair housing board is also empowered at the conclusion of the
hearing to recommend to the mayor of the city the suspension or revocation of
the license of any real estate broker or real estate salesman licensed by the
city who shall have been a respondent to any proceedings thus filed and found
guilty of violation of any applicable provision of this chapter. The mayor
shall have authority to suspend the license of any such broker or salesman
forthwith for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days without a
confirmation of such action being required by the council. Any broker or
salesman whose license has been suspended by the mayor shall have full right to
appeal from such order of suspension to the council at any time within ten (10)
days after notice of such suspension has been given, and the decision of the
majority of the council shall be final on review of any such suspension. Any
revocation of a broker's license or salesman's license shall be accomplished
after a hearing.
   (D)   In addition to the foregoing, the mayor may direct the city attorney
to file with the department of registration and education of the state a
complaint against any real estate broker or real estate salesman found guilty
of violating any provisions of this chapter, seeking suspension or revocation
of the license issued to such broker or salesman by the state.
   (E)   Any person committing an unfair housing practice shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for a fourth
offense, if he is a real estate broker or real estate salesman, his license by
the city shall be automatically revoked and notice of such fourth offense and
revocation shall be forwarded to the department of registration and education
of the state with a request that proceedings be instituted for revocation of
any license issued by the state. (Ord. 600, 10-22-1968; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 18
AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-18-1: Tax Rate
5-18-2: Report Filed
5-18-3: Tax Payment Due
5-18-4: Copies Of Ordinance
5-18-5: Effective Date
5-18-1: TAX RATE:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in this city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts
from such rentals made in the course of such business while this chapter is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-7 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 1119, 1-4-1982)
5-18-2: REPORT FILED:
Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by sections two and three of "an act in relation to a tax upon
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933, as amended. (Ord.
1119, 1-4-1982)
5-18-3: TAX PAYMENT DUE:
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the renting of
automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 1119, 1-4-1982)
5-18-4: COPIES OF ORDINANCE:
The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state department of
revenue a certified copy of this chapter not later than five (5) days after the
effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 1119, 1-4-1982)
5-18-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective on the first day of the calendar month next
following publication as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-4 of
the Illinois municipal code. Certified proof of publication shall be forwarded
to the Illinois department of revenue along with the certified copy of this
chapter as required by section
5-18-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1119, 1-4-1982)
CHAPTER 19
AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX
SECTION:
5-19-1: Tax Rate
5-19-2: Tax Collector
5-19-3: Tax Payment
5-19-4: Copies Of Ordinance
5-19-5: Effective Date
5-19-1: TAX RATE:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an automobile
which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is titled or
registered with an agency of this state's government in this city at a rate of
one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this chapter is
in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-8 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 1120, 1-4-1982)
5-19-2: TAX COLLECTOR:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall be collected from the persons whose
Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in this
city. (Ord. 1120, 1-4-1982)
5-19-3: TAX PAYMENT:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the Illinois department of
revenue. (Ord. 1120, 1-4-1982)
5-19-4: COPIES OF ORDINANCE:
The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state department of
revenue a certified copy of this chapter not later than five (5) days after the
effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 1120, 1-4-1982)
5-19-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective on the first day of the second calendar month
next following publication as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-
4 of the Illinois municipal code. Certified proof of publication shall be
forwarded to the Illinois department of revenue along with the certified copy
of this chapter required by section
5-19-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1120, 1-4-1982)
CHAPTER 20
ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
5-20-1: Tax Imposed
5-20-2: Exceptions
5-20-3: Additional Taxes
5-20-4: Collection
5-20-5: Reports To City
5-20-6: Credits For Overpayment
5-20-7: Penalty
5-20-8: Unconstitutionality
5-20-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   Imposition: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.4000 cents per kilowatt hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2620 cents per kilowatt hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2360 cents per kilowatt hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2290 cents per kilowatt hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2230 cents per kilowatt hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2100 cents per kilowatt hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2060 cents per kilowatt hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2030 cents per kilowatt hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.2000 cents per kilowatt hour;
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month; 0.1970 cents per kilowatt hour. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-
1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
   (B)   Rates, Effective Dates: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-2, the rates set forth in subsection (A) of this section shall be effective:
1) on August 1, 1998, for residential customers; and 2) on the earlier of: a)
the first bill issued on or after January 1, 2001, or b) the date of the first
bill issued pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, for
nonresidential customers. (Ord. 2206, 1-3-2000)
   (C)   Gross Receipts: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2,
subsection
5-2-3(A)3 of this title shall specifically remain in effect: 1) for receipts
attributable to residential customers, until July 31, 1998; and 2) for receipts
attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier of: a) through the last
bill issued prior to December 31, 2000, or b) the date of the first bill issued
to such nonresidential customer pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
16-104. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
5-20-2: EXCEPTIONS:
None of the taxes authorized by this chapter may be imposed with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
business or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this chapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal retailers'
occupation tax act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor
shall any tax authorized by this chapter be imposed upon any person engaged in
a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-
1998)
5-20-3: ADDITIONAL TAXES:
Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
5-20-4: COLLECTION:
The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the purchaser by the
person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this chapter and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity, provided,
that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax
related to deliveries of electricity the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998,
eff. 8-1-1998; amd. Ord. 2206, 1-3-2000)
5-20-5: REPORTS TO CITY:
On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not paid the tax
imposed by this chapter to a person delivering electricity as set forth in
section
5-20-1 of this chapter, and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax
shall make a return to the city treasurer for the preceding month stating:
   (A)   His name.
   (B)   His principal place of business.
   (C)   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
   (D)   Amount of tax.
   (E)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of such
return, pay to the city, the amount of tax herein imposed; provided that in
connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects, report and pay
an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to the tax during
the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously
billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any difference
between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998,
eff. 8-1-1998)
5-20-6: CREDITS FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
5-20-7: PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) in
addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due 1 . (Ord.
2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
5-20-8: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY:
In the event that public act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional, or if this
chapter created by ordinance 2099 is voided by court action, the provisions of
subsection
5-2-3(A)3 of this title shall remain in effect in all respects as if it had
never been amended by this chapter, and any amounts paid to the city by any
person delivering electricity pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to have
been paid pursuant to the gross receipts utility tax as it existed prior to the
passage of this chapter. (Ord. 2099, 7-6-1998, eff. 8-1-1998)
CHAPTER 21
TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
5-21-1: Short Title
5-21-2: Scope
5-21-3: Definitions
5-21-4: Notices
5-21-5: Late Payment
5-21-6: Payment
5-21-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
5-21-8: Audit Procedure
5-21-9: Appeal
5-21-10: Hearing
5-21-11: Interest And Penalties
5-21-12: Abatement
5-21-13: Installment Contracts
5-21-14: Statute Of Limitations
5-21-15: Voluntary Disclosure
5-21-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
5-21-17: Liens
5-21-18: Application
5-21-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CITY: The city of Dixon, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's finance director, the person charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead.
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2887, 8-20-2012)
5-21-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark date on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. A taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid the tax
voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest
the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under
duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the
local tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect governmental
entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local governmental entity
imposing such tax. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-9: APPEAL:
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened and
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-10: HEARING:
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
5-21-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed ten (10) days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
eighteen percent (18%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five
(365) days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of
the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner
provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a
notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff.
1-1-2001)
5-21-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is ten (10) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have ten (10) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the ten (10) day period or fails
to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the
local tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years after the end of the calendar
year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar
year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. Any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and the exhaustion of
all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local
tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the city clerk's office. The posting of a tax ordinance on the internet
shall satisfy the publication requirements. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
5-21-17: LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2296, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-21-18: APPLICATION:
To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with
this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 2296, 12-18-2000, eff.
1-1-2001)
CHAPTER 22
NONALCOHOL BARS
SECTION:
5-22-1: Purpose And Construction
5-22-2: Closing Hours
5-22-3: License
5-22-4: Application
5-22-5: Powers Of Mayor
5-22-6: Penalty
5-22-1: PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall apply to any dance hall, nonalcohol bar, dry cabaret, juice
bar, or teenage cabaret which is designed, used or intended to be used
primarily for participation by the public assembling for entertainment or
amusement purposes, including, but not limited to, music, music videos, and
dancing. This chapter shall not apply to any establishment which is licensed to
serve alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 2390, 6-3-2002)
5-22-2: CLOSING HOURS:
No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall operate any juice bar,
dry cabaret, teenage cabaret or other nonalcohol bar between the hours of one
minute after one o'clock (1:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday
and Sunday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day on Sunday through Thursday; nor permit
persons under eighteen (18) years of age to enter or remain upon the premises
after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday or after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday. This section shall not be
construed to prevent regular employees from performing necessary work within
the premises during such prohibited hours of operation. (Ord. 2390, 6-3-2002;
amd. 2020 Code)
5-22-3: LICENSE:
No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall keep, conduct, or
operate any juice bar, dry cabaret, teenage cabaret or other nonalcohol bar
without first being licensed to do so as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2390,
6-3-2002)
5-22-4: APPLICATION:
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity desiring to keep, conduct
or operate any juice bar, dry cabaret, teenage cabaret or other nonalcohol bar
in the city shall make written application to the mayor for a license to do so,
setting forth the name of the applicant and the location where it is desired to
keep, conduct or operate such juice bar, dry cabaret, teenage cabaret or other
nonalcohol bar. Said application shall be accompanied by an application fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00), a copy of the occupancy permit for the specified
premises, a copy of the food and beverage license, and, if applicable, a copy
of a current lease agreement. Application for renewal of such license shall be
made to the mayor. (Ord. 2390, 6-3-2002)
5-22-5: POWERS OF MAYOR:
   (A)   Licenses issued under this section may be revoked or suspended for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the mayor after notice and hearing as
provided in subsections (C) and (D) of this section for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or renewal application;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee of the provisions of this chapter
relating to the license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises
occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the mayor determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering the matters set
forth in such person's application and any investigation attendant thereto. The
burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
      4.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
city;
      5.   The occurrence of two (2) or more disturbances at the licensed
premises within a ninety (90) day period, or two (2) or more incidents
involving injury or bodily harm to patrons, bystanders, or police officers
within a ninety (90) day period, provided that the mayor finds, upon the
recommendation of the police chief, that as a result of the disturbances or
incidents involving injury or bodily harm, a public nuisance exists which
endangers the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the city;
      6.   The occurrence of two (2) or more license suspensions within any
twelve (12) month period, provided that the mayor finds that a public nuisance
exists which endangers the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the
city.
   (B)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution or
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violations of other
applicable ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing for revocation or suspension of a license shall
be given in writing, specifically setting forth the grounds of the complaint,
as well as the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be served
personally upon the licensee, or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the licensee at his last known address at least five (5) days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing referred to in subsection (C) of this section, counsel
for the city shall present the complaint and shall represent the city. The
licensee shall be permitted to retain counsel and shall have the right to
submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The mayor shall preside and render
the decision.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the mayor pursuant to the
previous subsection may appeal to the circuit court. Any such appeal shall be
pursuant to and subject to the administrative review act. (Ord. 2390, 6-3-2002)
5-22-6: PENALTY:
Any licensee or agent thereof violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and/or the suspension or revocation of the operator's
license as provided hereunder. (Ord. 2390, 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 23
RAFFLES
SECTION:
5-23-1: Title
5-23-2: Definitions
5-23-3: Licensing
5-23-4: Application For License
5-23-5: Ineligible Parties
5-23-6: Conduct Of Raffles
5-23-7: Manager's Bond
5-23-8: Records
5-23-9: Violations
5-23-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the RAFFLES ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
DIXON, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 2965, 5-4-2015)
5-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial or civic
interests of the city.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
CITY: The city of Dixon, Illinois.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
KEY LOCATION:
   (A)   For a poker run, the location where the poker run concludes and the
prizes are awarded;
   (B)   For a raffle, the location where the winning chances in the raffle are
determined.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: Gross receipts from the conduct of a raffle, less reasonable sums
expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
POKER RUN: A prize-awarding event organized by an organization licensed under
this chapter in which participants travel to multiple predetermined locations,
including a key location, to play a randomized game based on an element of
change. “Poker run” includes dice runs, marble runs, or other events where the
objective is to build the best hand or highest score by obtaining an item or
playing a randomized game at each location.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery as defined in section 28-2(b) of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 2012, as amended, conducted by an organization licensed under
this chapter, in which:
   (A)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   (B)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   (C)   A raffle does not include any game designed to simulate any games
provided by a video gaming terminal, as defined in the Video Gaming Act.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 2965, 5-4-2015; amd. 2020 Code)
5-23-3: LICENSING:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or organization to conduct a raffle
within the corporate limits of the City without first having obtained a license
therefor. The City Clerk shall issue a license only to the persons or
organizations which submit an application and qualify for licensure as provided
herein.
   (B)   A license for conducting a raffle shall be issued only to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, veterans, or
other bona fide not-for-profit organizations that operate without profit to
their members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of
five (5) years immediately before making application for a license and which
have had during the entire five (5) year period been engaged in carrying out
their objects.
   (C)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle run shall not exceed one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000.00).
   (D)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2965, 5-4-
2015)
   (E)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed one (1) year. (Ord. 3055, 8-21-2017; amd. 2020 Code)
5-23-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   The license and application for a raffles license must specify the
time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the date and
time of determination of winning chances and the location or locations at which
winning chances will be determined.
   (B)   The application for license shall be prepared in accordance with this
chapter and shall be on a form or forms as provided by the City Clerk. The
license application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to the not for
profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of the applicant.
   (C)   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct the raffle as defined in
this chapter. Each such license is valid for one (1) raffle.
   (D)   Upon submission of an application for licensure, the applicant shall
also submit an application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 2965, 5-
4-2015; amd. 2020 Code)
5-23-5: INELIGIBLE PARTIES:
The following persons and organizations are ineligible for any raffle license
or to hold a raffle under this chapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection (A),
(B) or (C) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is an officer, director or employee whether compensated or
not; or
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle. (Ord. 2965, 5-4-2015)
5-23-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles are subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide director, officer, employee or member of
the sponsoring organization may manage or participate in the management of the
raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for managing or
participating in the management of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises in which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle provided that rent is not determined as a
percentage of receipts or profits from the raffle.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued throughout the State of Illinois,
including beyond that borders of the city, but winning chances may be
determined only at those locations specified on the license.
   (F)   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances in a raffle are being determined only when accompanied by
his parent or guardian.
   (G)   A licensee may contract with third parties who, acting at the
direction of and under the supervision of the licensee, provide bona fide
services to the licensee in connection with the operation of a raffle and may
pay reasonable compensation for such services. Such services include the
following:
      (1)   Advertising, marketing and promotion;
      (2)   Legal;
      (3)   Procurement of goods, prizes, wares and merchandise for the purpose
of operating the raffle;
      (4)   Rent, if the premises upon which the raffle will be held is rented;
      (5)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping;
      (6)   Website hosting;
      (7)   Mailing and delivery;
      (8)   Banking and payment processing; and
      (9)   Other services relating to the operation of the raffle. (2020 Code)
5-23-7: MANAGER'S BOND:
All management, operation and the conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single manager designated by the organization. The manager
shall give a fidelity bond in an amount equal to the aggregate value of all
prizes or merchandise awarded by the licensee in such raffle. The terms of the
bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the city not less
than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The city may waive this bond
requirement by including a waiver provision in the license approved by the city
issued to an organization, provided that a license containing such waiver
provision shall be granted only by affirmative vote of the requisite members of
the licensed organization, or if the licensed organization does not have
members, of members of the governing board of the organization. (Ord. 2965, 5-
4-2015; amd. 2020 Code)
5-23-8: RECORDS:
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are conducted by the same organization pursuant to a
license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois,
or charitable games gross receipts, if charitable games are also conducted by
the same organization pursuant to a license therefor issued by the department
of revenue of the state of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each
organization shall have separate records of its raffles. The person who
accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, or if the licensee does
not have members, to its governing board, and to the city its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution of net proceeds
itemized as required in this chapter.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2965, 5-4-2015)
5-23-9: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of any provision of this chapter is a petty offense and shall be
punishable according to the general penalty provisions of this code. (Ord.
2965, 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 24
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-24-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
5-24-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
5-24-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts of these sales made in the course of that
business. The tax imposed hereunder be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-22. (Ord. 3165,
9-16-2019)
5-24-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (the "Department"). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State of Illinois. Retailers may
reimburse themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately
stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in
combination, in a single amount, with any State of Illinois tax that sellers
are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 3165, 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 25
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-25-1: Definitions
5-25-2: License Required
5-25-3: License Classification And Fees
5-25-4: License Renewal
5-25-5: Responsibility Of Mayor
5-25-6: License Termination; Revocation; Fines; Costs
5-25-7: Use Of Premises After Revocation
5-25-8: Hours Of Operation; On-Premises Consumption
5-25-9: Restrictions Regarding Persons Under The Age Of Twenty-One (21)
5-25-10: Penalty
5-25-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
ACT:                             The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS
                                 705/1-1 et seq.
                                 Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that
                                 are identified as including any parts of the
                                 plant Cannabis sativa and including
                                 derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of
                                 all strains of cannabis, whether growing or
                                 not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted
                                 from any part of the plant; and any compound,
                                 manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
                                 preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin,
                                 including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
                                 other naturally produced cannabinol
                                 derivatives, whether produced directly or
CANNABIS:                        indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis"
                                 does not include the mature stalks of the
                                 plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or
                                 cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
                                 other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
                                 mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
                                 (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
                                 oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the
                                 plant that is incapable of germination.
                                 "Cannabis" does not include industrial hemp as
                                 defined and authorized under the Industrial
                                 Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means cannabis
                                 concentrate and cannabis-infused product.
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: As defined in section 6-2-3 of this code.
                                 A product derived from cannabis that is
                                 produced by extracting cannabinoids from the
                                 plant through the use of propylene glycol,
                                 glycerin, butter, olive oil or other typical
CANNABIS CONCENTRATE:            cooking fats; water, ice, or dry ice; or
                                 butane, propane, carbon dioxide, ethanol, or
                                 isopropanol. The use of any other solvent is
                                 expressly prohibited unless and until it is
                                 approved by the Illinois Department of
                                 Agriculture.
                                 A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture,
CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT:        topical formulation, or another product
                                 containing cannabis that is not intended to be
                                 smoked. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
 
 
5-25-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It is unlawful to transfer, distribute, process, sell or offer for
sale in the city any cannabis (i) without a license issued by the city pursuant
to this chapter, or (ii) otherwise in violation of the terms of such license or
the provisions of this chapter or the Act.
   (B)   An application for a license for the transfer, distribution, process
or sale of cannabis within the city shall be made to the city clerk in writing,
on the form or forms as prepared by the city, and shall be signed by the
applicant or a duly authorized agent thereof. The application shall be
accompanied by the applicable license fee as provided in section
5-25-3 and contain the following minimum information:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant. In the case of a
partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other business, the date
of its formation, the objects for which it was formed, and the names and
addresses of its officers, directors, members, partners or other persons
authorized to act for and on behalf of the business. A certified copy of the
organizational documents filed with the Illinois Secretary of State and a
current Certificate of Good Standing or Certificate of Existence shall be
provided.
      2.   The location and description of the premises or place of business to
be operated under such license. If the applicant is not the owner of the
premises, a copy of the written, signed lease or other written authority for
use of the premises shall be provided.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has made any applications for a
similar license other than described in the application, and the disposition of
such application.
      4.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, the laws of the state or the ordinances of the city.
      5.   Whether a previous license by any state, or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
      6.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any state or federal
law or city ordinance in the conduct of the place of business.
   (C)   No license shall be issued unless the applicant has applied for and
received a license from the state for the transfer, distribution, process or
sale of cannabis as provided in the Act.
   (D)   No license shall be issued or renewed unless the premises on which the
transfer, distribution, process or sale of cannabis is proposed to occur
complies in all respects with the applicable zoning ordinances and building and
fire codes for the city. Prior to issuance or renewal, the city building
official and the fire chief shall inspect the premises for compliance. (Ord.
3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-3: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION AND FEES:
Licenses for the transfer, distribution, process or sale of cannabis within the
city shall be divided into the following classes:
   (A)   Craft Grower License:
      1.   A craft grower license shall entitle the licensee to operate as a
craft grower, as such term is defined in section 6-2-3 of this code.
      2.   The initial fee for the issuance of a craft grower license shall be
one thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($1,750.00). The license fee for the
annual renewal of said license shall be one thousand seven hundred fifty
dollars ($1,750.00).
      3.   There shall be issued not more than one (1) craft grower license
within the city at any given time.
   (B)   Cultivation Center License:
      1.   A cultivation center license shall entitle the licensee to operate
as a cultivation center, as such term is defined in section 6-2-3 of this code.
      2.   The initial fee for the issuance of a cultivation center license
shall be one thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($1,750.00). The license fee
for the annual renewal of said license shall be one thousand seven hundred
fifty dollars ($1,750.00).
      3.   There shall be issued not more than one (1) cultivation center
license within the city at any given time.
   (C)   Dispensing Organization License:
      1.   A dispensing organization license shall entitle the licensee to
operate as a dispensing organization, as such term is defined in section 6-2-3.
      2.   The initial fee for the issuance of a dispensing organization
license shall be one thousand seven hundred fifty ($1,750.00). The license fee
for the annual renewal of said license shall be one thousand seven hundred
fifty dollars ($1,750.00).
      3.   There shall be issued not more than one (1) dispensing organization
license within the city at any given time.
   (D)   Processing Organization License:
      1.   A processing organization license shall entitle the licensee to
operate as a processing organization, as such term is defined in section 6-2-
3 of this code.
      2.   The initial fee for the issuance of a processing organization
license shall be one thousand seven hundred fifty ($1,750.00). The license fee
for the annual renewal of said license shall be one thousand seven hundred
fifty dollars ($1,750.00).
      3.   There shall be issued not more than one (1) processing organization
license within the city at any given time.
   (E)   Transporting Organization License:
      1.   A transporting organization license shall entitle the licensee to
operate as a transporting organization, as such term is defined in section 6-2-
3 of this code.
      2.   The initial fee for the issuance of a transporting organization
license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The license fee for the
annual renewal of said license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   There shall be issued not more than one (1) transporting
organization license within the city at any given time.
   The city clerk shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued under
this chapter. No license shall be transferable by the licensee to any other
person, firm or corporation. The fee to be paid for any license issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be prorated based upon the period of time remaining on
the term of the license. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-4: LICENSE RENEWAL:
Any licensee may renew his, her or its license by submitting an application for
renewal to the city and by paying the applicable license fee at least thirty
(30) days prior to expiration of the term of said license. No license may be
renewed unless the licensee and the licensed premises are in full compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, including but not limited to, a
satisfactory inspection of the premises for compliance with applicable zoning
ordinances and building and fire codes for the city. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF MAYOR:
The mayor is charged with the administration of this chapter. The mayor may
appoint a person or persons to assist him or her in the exercise of powers and
the performance of the duties provided in this chapter. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-6: LICENSE TERMINATION; REVOCATION; FINES; COSTS:
   (A)   Every license issued under this chapter shall be valid from the date
of its issuance until midnight on the following April 30. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter between the dates of
January 1, 2020, and April 30, 2020, shall expire on April 30, 2021.
   (B)   If a license is not used by the licensee within a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date of its issuance, the license is subject
to revocation in the sole discretion of the mayor.
   (C)   The mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter
for any one (1) of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of the laws of the United States, the laws of this state
or any of the ordinances, resolutions, rules or regulations of the city where
such violations relate to the operation of a licensed premises;
      2.   Violation of this chapter or any disorderly practices upon the
premises;
      3.   The making of any false statement as to a material fact in the
application for the license;
      4.   Revocation of the licensee's state license issued pursuant to the
Act; or
      5.   The sale, delivery, transfer, distribution or giving away of
cannabis to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (D)   In lieu of suspension or revocation, the mayor may instead levy a fine
on the licensee in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation of this
chapter. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (E)   No license shall be suspended or revoked, and no licensee fined,
except after a public hearing in front of the mayor affording the licensee with
the opportunity to appear and be heard. Written notice of the alleged
violations and the location, date and time of the hearing shall be given to the
licensee not less than seven (7) days prior thereto. Such notice shall be given
by registered mail addressed to both the address of the premises and the
address of the licensee set forth on the application for license. The hearing
may be continued from time to time for reasonable cause as determined by the
mayor.
   (F)   The mayor shall, within fourteen (14) days after such hearing, notify
the licensee in writing as to his or her decision, including the reasons
therefor, the amount of the fine, if any, the term of suspension, if any, and
whether the license has been revoked. Such notice shall be given by registered
mail addressed to both the address of the premises and the address of the
licensee set forth on the application for license.
   (G)   Any licensee found to have violated this chapter shall pay to the city
the costs of hearing on such violation. The mayor shall determine such costs,
including, but not limited to, court reporter's fees, costs of transcripts and
records, attorneys' fees, and costs of preparing and mailing notices and
decision. Such costs shall be in addition to any fine imposed.
   (H)   The licensee shall pay such costs and any fine imposed to the city
within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the mayor's decision. Failure of the
licensee to pay within such time constitutes a separate violation of this
chapter and may be enforced as a new violation as set forth in this section.
   (I)   Any act or omission constituting a violation of this chapter committed
by any officer, director, partner, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee shall be deemed to be the act or omission of such licensee. (Ord.
3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-7: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
Upon revocation of any license issued pursuant to this chapter, no new license
shall be granted to such licensee, or any owner, partner, shareholder or member
of such licensee, for a period of at least three (3) years thereafter. (Ord.
3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-8: HOURS OF OPERATION; ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION:
   (A)   Cannabis may be sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given
away upon or about any premises holding a dispensing organization license only
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) AM and nine o'clock (9:00) PM.
   (B)   The smoking, inhaling, eating or consuming of cannabis in any other
manner while on the premises of a cannabis business establishment is
prohibited.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensees, their agents or
employees, or independent contractors hired by the licensee to render services
to the licensee from being upon or within the licensed premises for the purpose
of cleaning, redecorating or repairing the licensed premises during hours when
otherwise prohibited; provided, however, that no sale, delivery, transfer,
distribution, giving away or consumption of any cannabis shall occur upon the
licensed premises during prohibited hours. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-9: RESTRICTIONS REGARDING PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE (21):
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, transfer, distribute
or give away cannabis to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years,
or for any person to permit or allow a person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years, to enter or remain inside a cannabis business establishment. The
licensee of the cannabis business establishment shall post a sign at all
entrances to the premises stating that no person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years may enter or remain inside the premises. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
5-25-10: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each occurrence. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Any violation by a licensee may, in the sole discretion of
the mayor, result in the suspension or revocation of the license issued
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 26
HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
5-26-1: Definitions
5-26-2: Tax Imposed
5-26-3: Use Of Funds
5-26-4: Inspection And Examination Of Books And Records
5-26-5: Reporting
5-26-6: Penalties
5-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
                       The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued
                       in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS: including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or
                       services of any kind or nature, including but not
                       limited to, amounts charged for the making, booking,
                       facilitating or servicing of reservations.
                       Any building or buildings in which the public may, for
                       consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or
                       housekeeping accommodations. The term includes includes,
HOTEL:                 but not be limited to, inns, hotels, motels, tourist
                       homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses and
                       apartment houses, retreat centers, conference centers,
                       and hunting lodges.
HOTEL ROOM:            A room within a hotel offered for rental on a daily
                       basis.
                       The use or possession, or the right to the use or
                       possession, of any hotel room or rooms for any purpose,
OCCUPANCY:             or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings
                       or to the services and accommodations accompanying the
                       use and possession of the hotel room or rooms.
                       Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting
OWNER:                 the operations of a hotel or receiving the consideration
                       for the rental of a hotel room or rooms.
                       Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any
PERMANENT RESIDENT:    hotel room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is
                       the same hotel room or rooms, in a hotel for at least
                       thirty (30) consecutive days.
                       Any individual, firm, partnership, association, joint
                       stock company, joint venture, public or private
PERSON:                corporation, limited liability company, or a receiver,
                       executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
                       appointed by order of any court.
                       Any person who pays for the privilege of using or
RENTER:                occupying a hotel room for the period for which payment
                       is made.
                       The consideration received for occupancy, valued in
RENT OR RENTAL:        money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
                       all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of
                       any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS:         Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping
                       accommodations in a hotel.
TREASURER:             The city treasurer of the City of Dixon, Illinois. (Ord.
                       3374, 10-16-2023)
 
5-26-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax upon all persons engaged in
the business of renting, leasing or letting a hotel room or rooms in a hotel
which is located within the corporate limits of the City of Dixon, Illinois, at
a rate of five percent (5%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting,
leasing or letting for any purpose for each 24-hour period or portion thereof.
The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to any and all other taxes and
charges applicable to such hotels, but such other taxes and charges shall not
be construed to be a part of the gross rental receipts upon which this tax is
levied.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any permanent resident of the hotel or
to any person who works and resides in the same hotel as a condition of
employment therein.
   (C)   The ultimate incidents of and liability for payment of the tax levied
herein is upon the owner of the hotel. Such hotel owner may reimburse themself
for their tax liability for this tax by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge to the renter, which charge may be stated in combination as a
single amount, with the State of Illinois tax imposed under "The Hotel
Operator's Occupation Tax Act" (as provided for in 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.). No
owner shall reimburse themself or charge for the imposition of this tax at a
rate higher than the tax imposed by this section. (Ord. 3374, 10-16-2023)
5-26-3: USE OF FUNDS:
The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited into a separate account established
and maintained by the treasurer within the city's general fund. The funds
retained in this account shall be expended in such manner as the city council
may from time to time determine necessary and expedient in order to accomplish
the goals of promotion of tourism and conventions within the city and
attraction of nonresident overnight visitors to the city. For that purpose, the
city council may from time to time enter into contracts or agreements with
other persons, organizations or agencies to provide services or products
intended and designed to accomplish such goals; provided, however, that every
such contract or agreement so authorized shall include a prohibition against
use of any of the funds generated from the tax imposed by this chapter for
advertisement for or otherwise promotion of new competition in the hotel
business. (Ord. 3374, 10-16-2023)
5-26-4: INSPECTION AND EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every owner shall maintain complete and accurate books and records, including a
daily sheet showing the gross rental receipts for the hotel rentals for the day
reported. For the purposes of enforcing and administering this chapter, the
treasurer or such agents as are designated by the treasurer shall have access
during normal business hours to the books and records of persons subject to
this chapter. (Ord. 3374, 10-16-2023)
5-26-5: REPORTING:
Owners shall transmit to the treasurer, in a manner chosen by the treasurer, on
or before the twentieth (20th) day of each calendar month, a sum of money equal
to the tax imposed on the renting of hotel rooms for the preceding calendar
month; and simultaneously therewith, shall transmit a report indicating the
rental rate from the renting of hotels rooms and such other information as the
treasurer may reasonably require for the enforcement of this chapter. The
report shall include:
   (A)   The name of the owner;
   (B)   The owner's residence address and the address of the principal place
of business from which the owner engages in the business of renting, leasing or
letting hotel rooms in the city;
   (C)   Total amount of rental receipts received by the owner during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing, or letting hotel rooms during
such preceding calendar month;
   (D)   Total amount of rental receipts received by the owner during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting hotel rooms to
permanent residents during such preceding calendar month;
   (E)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts as allowed
by this chapter;
   (F)   Gross rental receipts which were received by the owner during the
preceding calendar month;
   (G)   The amount of the tax due;
   (H)   The amount of penalty due, if any; and
   (I)   Such other information as may from time to time be required by the
treasurer.
The treasurer, upon written request from any owner whose average monthly tax
liability to the city under this chapter does not exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00), may authorize such owner to submit the report and remit the tax on a
quarterly basis, on or before the twentieth (20th) day following the conclusion
of each quarter. (Ord. 3374, 10-16-2023)
5-26-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   If for any reason any tax levied under this chapter is not paid when
due, a penalty at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per thirty (30)-
day period, or portion thereof, from the day of delinquency shall be added and
collected, with a minimum penalty of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense,
and not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and not more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense
during any one hundred and eighty (180)-day period. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as having been committed each day upon which such
person shall continue any such violation. (Ord. 3374, 10-16-2023)
CHAPTER 27
MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX;
MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-27-1: Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed
5-27-2: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
5-27-3: Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes
5-27-1: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in the City of Dixon at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
Ordinance is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65
ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord, 3421, 11-18-2024)
5-27-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the City of Dixon in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section 2. above. The imposition
of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-
11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord, 3421, 11-18-2024)
5-27-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
   The taxes imposed by this Ordinance, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Illinois Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord, 3421, 11-18-2024)
TITLE 6
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; INTENT AND PURPOSE; JURISDICTION
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title; Effective Date
6-1-2: Intent And Purpose
6-1-3: Jurisdiction
6-1-4: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
6-1-1: TITLE; EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the Zoning Title of the
City of Dixon, Illinois. This Title shall become effective on December 16,
1996. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This Title is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and
general welfare of the people.
   (B)   To divide the City into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business and manufacturing
and other specified uses.
   (C)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property.
   (D)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air, and to protect the public health.
   (E)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses with such areas.
   (F)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein.
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts.
   (H)   To prevent additions to, or alteration or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder.
   (I)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles.
   (J)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare.
   (K)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them.
   (L)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
City.
   (M)   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district.
   (N)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
   (O)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business, public open space, manufacturing and other areas within the City and
to promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas, all in
accordance with the Dixon Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   (A)   This Title shall apply to all property in the City of Dixon, including
that owned by other municipal corporations and government bodies.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by this Title, no building, structure, or
land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure, or part thereof
shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally
altered, unless it conforms with the provisions of this Title governing the
zoning district in which it is located. No lot of record which did not exist as
of the effective date of this Title shall be created, by subdivision or
otherwise, which does not conform to the requirements of this Title for the
zoning district in which the land is located. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-1-4: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan shall be advisory only and, in and of itself,
shall not be construed or interpreted as regulating or controlling the use of
any private property and it is not the intent of the City that owners of
private property should rely on recommendations in the Master Plan being
translated into presently effective regulations. The decision as to whether and
when particular elements of the Comprehensive Plan will be implemented in
regulatory ordinances is reserved for the City Council to make from time to
time taking into account, among other factors, the type of development that is
contemplated and the timing of such development in the context of the best
advantage of the City as a whole. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 2
RULES; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Rules Of Construction
6-2-2: Interpretation
6-2-3: Definitions
6-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the
terms and provisions of this Title:
      1.   In their application, the provisions of this Title shall be the
minimum requirements for the promotion and protection of the public health,
safety morals and general welfare, and shall be construed to achieve the
purposes for which this Title is adopted.
      2.   This ordinance is not intended to abrogate any other law, ordinance,
or permit. However, where conditions, standards, or requirements imposed by any
provision of this Title are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable standards imposed by any other Title of the City of Dixon, or by any
other law or ordinance, the provisions which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern. This Title is not
intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or other private agreement;
however, where the regulations of this ordinance are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or requirements than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement, the requirements of this Title shall govern.
      3.   In the event there is any conflict in the limitations, requirements,
or standards contained in this Title as applied to an individual use or
structure, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
      4.   In the event of a conflict between the text of this Title and any
caption, figure, illustration, table, or map contained herein, the text shall
control.
      5.   The words "shall", "must", and "will", are mandatory in nature,
establishing an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The
word "may" is permissive in nature. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the masculine
gender include the feminine gender. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-2-2: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Title, they shall be held
to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety, morals,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this Title to interfere with, abrogate, annul or repeal any rules, or
regulations, previously adopted, and not in conflict with any of the provisions
of this Title or which shall be adopted, pursuant to law relating to the use of
buildings or premises. It is not intended by this Title to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties, except that where this Title imposes a greater restriction upon the
use of buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by such other regulations or such
easements, covenants or other agreements, the provisions of this Title shall
control. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Title, the following words and terms shall have the meaning
set forth in this Section, unless other provisions of this Title specifically
indicate otherwise:
ABANDONED      A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business, lessor,
SIGN:          service, owner, product or activity located on the premises.
               A subordinate building or use which is located on the same lot on which the main
               building or use is situated and which is reasonably necessary and incidental to
               the conduct of the primary use of such building or main use, when permitted by
               zoning district regulations. An "accessory use" includes, but is not limited to,
               the following:
                
               a.   A children's playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse.
                
ACCESSORY      b.   A garage, shed or building for domestic storage, but does not include a
BUILDING OR    Temporary Carport (as defined below).
USE:            
               c.   Incinerators incidental to residential use.
                
               d.    A guest house or servant's quarters (may be above garage).
                
               e.    Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with any
               retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the zoning
               district regulations.
                
               f.    Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities, on the
               same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage is excluded
               by the zoning district regulations.
                
               g.    Off-street motor vehicle parking areas, and loading and unloading
               facilities.
                
               h.    Signs as regulated in this Title.
                
               i.    Satellite dishes, antennas and other receiving equipment.
                
               j.    Tennis courts, swimming pools and other recreational facilities.
                
               k.    The following are additional accessory uses allowed in Business and
               Manufacturing districts, provided such uses cater primarily to the employees of
               the principle use:
                
                 1.   Business service and supply service establishments.
                
                  2.    Child care facilities.
                
                  3.    Eating establishments.
                
                  4.    Health clubs, spas, saunas, swimming pools, tennis courts and other such
               recreational facilities.
                
                  5.    Repair service establishments.
                
                  6.    Pharmacies.
                
                  7.    Quick service food stores.
                
                  8.    A dwelling unit for a watchman, custodian, proprietor, or owner of
               principle structure in manufacturing districts only.
                
                  9.    Retail sales establishments selling convenience merchandise.
ACREAGE:       Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and platted.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Building Official or his designated representative.
ADVERTISING    A sign which directs attention to a business or profession conducted, or to a
SIGN:          commodity or service sold, offered, or manufactured, or an entertainment offered
               on the premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
ALLEY:         A public way, not more than thirty feet (30') wide, which affords only a secondary
               means of access to abutting property.
ALTERATION:    Any change, addition, or modification in construction or occupancy of an existing
               structure.
               Any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing
ALTERATION,    walls, columns, beams, or girders; provided, however, that the application of any
STRUCTURAL:    exterior siding to an existing building for the purpose of beautifying and
               modernizing shall not be considered a structural alteration.
               An amusement center is any one place containing more than three (3) mechanical
               devices set up or placed together in one location by an operator and used as an
AMUSEMENT      amusement center as the primary use. When used as a secondary use, said use shall
CENTER:        not exceed more than ten percent (10%) of the sales area. Expressly excluded from
               this definition is any premises for which a liquor license has been issued
               pursuant to Title V, Chapter 13.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which uses a movement or change of lighting to depict continuous action
               or to create a continuous special effect or scene.
               A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is arranged,
APARTMENT:     designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit. Complete
               kitchen facilities, permanently installed, must always be included for each
               apartment.
               Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in running condition, or parts
               thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation, or any
AUTO WRECKING  land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or
YARD:          parts thereof; and including any used farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts
               thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition; and
               including the commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
               A use auxiliary to an automobile service station, housed in a structure and
AUTOMOBILE     capable of being utilized for the washing of automobiles, whether by hand or by
LAUNDRY:       automation, where no automatic conveyor or drive-through facility is incorporated
               into the process and where no more than two vehicles are able to be washed on the
               premises at any given time.
AUTOMOBILE     A structure, the principal use of which is to allow for washing of vehicles with
LAUNDRY -      hand-operated facilities used principally for the cleaning, polishing, or waxing
SELF-SERVICE:  of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE     Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles or
REPAIR; MAJOR: trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender straightening or
               repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE     Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service to automobiles, but
REPAIR; MINOR: not including any operation specified under "automobile repair, major".
               A place where gasoline, stored only in underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating
               oil or grease, for operation of automobiles, is offered for sale directly to the
AUTOMOBILE     public on the premises, and including minor accessories and services for
SERVICE        automobiles, but not including automobile repairs; and including washing of
STATION:       automobiles where no chain conveyor, blower or steam cleaning device is employed.
               When the dispensing, sale or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental
               to the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public
               garage.
               A machinery or an operation, other than an Automobile Laundry, for the washing of
               automobiles or other motor vehicles, which machinery or operation may utilize such
AUTOMOBILE     mechanical devices as a vehicle conveyor, hot air blowers, steam cleaners, and wax
WASHING        applicators - all located upon a single lot of record with a paved off-street
FACILITY:      parking area sufficient in size to provide a minimum number of off-street parking
               facilities equal to the product obtained by multiplying the maximum number of
               automobiles capable of being washed at any one time by ten (10).
AWNING:        A shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building
               constructed of non-rigid materials on a supporting framework (compare "Marquee").
AWNING,        A sign painted on, printed on, or attached flat against the surface of an awning,
CANOPY, AND    canopy or marquee.
MARQUEE SIGN:
BANNER SIGN:   A sign made of fabric or any non-rigid material with no enclosing framework.
BAR, TAVERN,   A building, or part of a building, where liquors are sold by the drink to be
OR LOUNGE:     consumed by customers standing or seated at a bar, at tables, or in lounge chairs
               at which the service of food is absent or incidental to the service of liquor.
BASE DENSITY:  The number of dwelling units per net acre of land based on dividing the calculated
               net acreage by the minimum lot size of the appropriate residential district.
               A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2) of its height
BASEMENT:      is above the established curb level or above the average level of the adjoining
               ground where curb level has not been established, a basement shall be counted as a
               story for purposes of height measurement.
BED AND        A dwelling in which no more than eight (8) transient guests are provided sleeping
BREAKFAST      accommodations and a continental breakfast. The operator of the bed and breakfast
ESTABLISHMENT: shall live on the premises.
BILLBOARD      A sign which may advertise goods, products, or services not necessarily sold on
SIGN:          the premises on which the sign is located and is a free standing structure with
               advertising copy in the form of pasted paper.
               A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of streets, by public parks,
BLOCK:         cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shore lines of waterways or
               a corporate boundary line of the City.
BOARDING       A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are provided for
HOUSE:         compensation for four (4) or more persons who are not members of the keeper's
               family.
BUILDABLE      The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open space and yard setback
AREA:          requirements of this Title have been complied with.
               Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the land and
               entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or by walls in
               which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings; and which is designed
BUILDING:      or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals or
               chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally accessible for human use,
               such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators, coal bunkers, oil
               cracking towers and other similar structures are not considered as buildings.
               The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest point of the coping of a
BUILDING       flat roof or the deck of a mansard roof, or to the mean level between the eaves
HEIGHT:        and the ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof, or to the highest point of a shed
               roof (see illustration 2.1)
               Any building which does not conform to the regulations of this Title prescribing
BUILDING,      the maximum floor area ratio, required yards, coverage, height and setbacks,
NONCONFORMING: minimum required spacing between buildings on a single lot, and minimum required
               usable open space for the district in which such building is located.
               The term used to describe the size and mutual relationships of buildings and other
               structures; as to size, height, coverage, shape, location of exterior walls in
BULK:          relation to lot lines, to the center line of streets, to other walls of the same
               building, and to other buildings or structures, and to all open spaces relating to
               the building or structure.
               A sign that identifies an institution or other non-profit organization on whose
BULLETIN BOARD premises it is located and which contains the name of the institution or non-
SIGN:          profit organization and/or movable letters announcing events or activities
               occurring on the site.
BUS LOT:       Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger busses or motor
               coaches.
CANNABIS:      Shall have the meaning set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
CANNABIS       A cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, dispensing
BUSINESS       organization, or transporting organization.
ESTABLISHMENT:
               Any permanent exterior roof structure attached to a building at the inner end and
CANOPY:        supported on the outer end in conformance with the Building Code of the City of
               Dixon.
CARTAGE,       Pickup and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by motor truck within the
LOCAL:         Dixon area.
CHANGEABLE     A sign on which copy is changed manually in the field, e.g., readerboard with
COPY SIGN:     changeable letters.
(Manual)
CHILD DAY CARE Any child care facility which regularly provides day care for less than twenty
CENTER:        four (24) hours per day for more than twelve (12) children in a family home or
               more than three (3) children in a facility other than a family home.
               Family homes which receive more than three (3) up to a maximum of twelve (12)
CHILD DAY CARE children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day. The number of counted
HOME:          includes the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under the
               age of twelve (12). The term does not include facilities which receive only
               children from a single household.
               Family homes which receive one to three (1 - 3) client children, at any given
               time, for less then twenty four (24) hours per day. The number counted includes
CHILD DAY CARE the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under the age of
PROVIDER (Home twelve (12). Although licensing of home occupations is not required by the State,
Occupation):   all permit requirements as declared in all relevant building and health codes of
               Dixon must be met. The term does not include facilities which receive only
               children from a single household.
CHURCH OR      An institution that people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious
PLACE OF       services, meetings, and other activities. The term "church" shall not carry a
WORSHIP:       secular connotation and shall include buildings in which the religious services of
               any denomination are held.
               Open space refers to the land that is devoid of structures, other than
               recreational facilities and uses accessory thereto, and is suitable for active and
COMMON OPEN    passive recreational activities, but specifically excludes parking lots; street
SPACE:         rights of way; front, rear and side yard setbacks if buildings and lots are
               subdivided and individually owned; private yard use areas; school sites; and
               retention ponds unless they are capable of sustaining water-based recreation.
               A residential facility for four (4) or more elderly persons (age 60 or older)
CONGREGATE     within which are provided living and sleeping facilities, limited medical
HOUSING:       services, shared food preparation services and major dining areas, and common
               recreation, social and service facilities for the exclusive use of all residents.
CONSTRUCTION   A temporary sign identifying an architect, contractor, subcontractor, and/or
SIGN:          material supplier participating in construction on the property on which the sign
               is located.
CONVENIENCE    Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged food products, household
STORE:         items, and other goods commonly associated with the same and having a gross floor
               area of less than 5,000 square feet.
CORNER LOT:    (See Lot, Corner)
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CRAFT GROWER:  Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis
               and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a
               dispensing organization or use at a processing organization.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CULTIVATION    Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport, and perform
CENTER:        other necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to
               Cannabis Business Establishments.
               The level of the established curb in front of the building measured at the center
               of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street, the "curb level"
CURB LEVEL:    shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center of the front of each
               street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the mean level of the land
               immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered the "curb level".
DENSITY,       The total number of dwelling units per gross acre of land divided by the total
GROSS:         gross acreage of a site, by the minimum lot or dwelling unit size of the
               appropriate residential district.
               The total number of dwelling units per net acre of land determined by dividing the
DENSITY, NET:  calculated net acreage by the minimum lot or dwelling unit size of the appropriate
               residential district.
DIRECTIONAL/   An on-premise sign giving directions, instructions, or facility information and
INFO RMATION   which may contain the name or logo of an establishment but no advertising copy,
SIGN:          e.g., parking or exit and entrance signs.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
               Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis
               from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, or another
               dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused
DISPENSING     products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies under the Cannabis
ORGANIZATION:  Regulation and Tax Act to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis
               patients and caregivers. A dispensing organization shall include a registered
               medical cannabis organization as defined in the Compassionate Use of Medical
               Cannabis Pilot Program Act that has obtained an Early Approval Adult Use
               Dispensing Organization License.
DOUBLE FACED   A sign with two faces.
SIGN:
               A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house trailer, designed or
DWELLING:      used exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family dwelling units,
               two-family dwelling units and multiple-family dwelling units, but not including
               hotels, boarding or lodging houses.
DWELLING,      Two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings, or boarding
GROUP:         or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot, but not including tourist courts or
               motels.
DWELLING,      A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by three (3) or more families
MULTIPLE-      living independently of each other.
FAMILY:
DWELLING, ONE- A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy by one family, and entirely
FAMILY:        separated from any other building space.
DWELLING, ROW: A row of two (2) to eight (8) attached, one-family, party-wall dwellings, not more
               than two and one-half (2-1/2) stories in height, nor more than two (2) rooms deep.
DWELLING, TWO- A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2) families.
FAMILY:
               One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment hotel, designed for
DWELLING UNIT: occupancy by one family, plus not more than four (4) lodgers, for living and
               sleeping purposes.
ELECTRICAL     A sign or sign structure in which electrical wiring, connections, or fixtures are
SIGN:          used.
ELECTRONIC     A sign on which the copy changes automatically on a lamp bank or through
MESSAGE CENTER mechanical means, e.g., electrical or electrical time and temperature units.
SIGN:
EMERGENCY      A facility providing temporary housing for one or more individuals who are
SHELTER/       otherwise homeless.
MISSION:
               A structure which contains a permanent roof, and all the space between the floor
               and ceiling of the structure is closed in by solid walls, pierced only by windows
ENCLOSED:      and normal exit and entrance doors. Temporary covers, including but not
               necessarily limited to, tarpaulins, lattice, screens, linens, and curtains shall
               not be used to enclose a garage and qualify a garage as an enclosed garage.
ERECT:         To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and shall also
               include the painting of wall signs.
EXTERNAL       The illumination of a sign which is produced by an artificial source of light
ILLUMINATION:  which is not contained within the sign itself.
FACADE:        The entire building front including the parapet.
FACE OF SIGN:  The area of a sign on which the copy is placed.
               One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group of not more
FAMILY:        than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who need not be related by blood,
               marriage or adoption, living together and maintaining a common household, but not
               including sororities, fraternities or other similar organizations.
FLAG:          Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as
               a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other entity.
               A sign which contains an intermittent or sequential flashing light source used
               primarily to attract attention. Does not include electronic message center,
FLASHING SIGN: animated signs, or signs which, through reflection or other means, create an
               illusion of flashing of intermittent light (compare "Animated Sign", "Electronic
               Message Center").
               A business establishment that is not a greenhouse, where the primary activity is
FLORIST        for retail sales of plants, nursery stock, and where other general retail sales
(Retail):      may occur as a secondary use. A florist may include a greenhouse as an accessory
               use.
FREESTANDING   Any sign supported by uprights or braces placed and anchored into the ground and
SIGN:          not attached to any building. It shall not include portable signs.
FRONTAGE:      The length of the property line of any one premise along a public right of way on
               which it borders.
FRONTAGE,      The length of an outside building wall on a public right of way.
BUILDING:
               Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three (3) or more
GARAGE, BUS:   passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public transportation, including
               school buses.
               A detached accessory building or portion of the main building, designed, arranged,
GARAGE,        used or intended to be used for the storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
PRIVATE:       premises. All detached accessory building or portions of the main building that
               meet the definition of "GARAGE, PRIVATE" shall be enclosed on all sides, except
               for normal exit and entrance doors.
               A building other than a private garage, used for the care, incidental servicing
GARAGE,        and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles are parked or stored for
PUBLIC:        remuneration, hire or sale within the structure, but not including trucks,
               tractors, truck trailers and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-half (1 1/
               2) ton capacity.
               A building which is used or intended to be used for the storage of motor trucks,
GARAGE, TRUCK: truck trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-half (1 1/
               2) ton capacity.
GOVERNMENT     Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained by the City, County, State
SIGN:          or Federal government for traffic direction or for designation of or direction to
               any school, hospital, historical site, or public service, property, or facility.
               The average of the finished ground level at the middle of all walls of a building.
GRADE:         In case walls are parallel to and within five feet (5') of a sidewalk, the ground
               level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
GREENHOUSE     A business establishment that is not a florist, where the primary activity is for
(COMMERCIAL):  growth and wholesale sales of plants, nursery stock, and where other general
               retail sales of plants and other related items may occur as a secondary use.
               The gross floor area, including the exterior building walls of the several floors
GROSS FLOOR    of a building or structure used privately or by the public as customers, patrons,
AREA (GFA):    clients, patients, or members. GFA shall include all occupied (see definition
               "Occupied") areas minus the following deductions:
               a.   Parking areas within the structure
               b.   Rooms occupied only by permitted specialized automatic, mechanical or
               electrical equipment or apparatus.
GROSS LEASABLE The gross floor area minus the following additional deductions:
AREA (GLA):
               a.   Elevator shafts and stairwells
               b.   Public restrooms
               c.   Public lobbies, common mall areas, atriums and courtyards at points of
               pedestrian access to the building from the exterior.
GROUND SIGN:   A sign erected on a free standing frame and not exceeding the height of four feet
               (4') above ground level.
               A facility located in a residential community providing shelter and/or
               rehabilitation for less than ten (10) children under the age of eighteen (18)
GROUP HOME:    years who, for various reasons, cannot reside in their natural home. Twenty four
               (24) hour a day adult supervision is mandatory, and professional consultation must
               be available to both child care staff and children. Group care facilities should
               be allowed only when licensed by the appropriate State and/or local agency.
               A dwelling shared by six (6) or more handicapped persons, including resident
GROUP HOME FOR staff, who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long-term, family-
THE            like environment in which staff persons provide care, education and participation
HANDICAPPED:   in community activities for the residents with the primary goal of enabling the
               resident to live as independently as possible in order to reach his/her maximum
               potential.
               As used herein, the term "handicapped" shall mean having: 1) a physical or mental
               impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life
               activities so that such person is incapable of living independently; 2) a record
               of having such an impairment; or 3) being regarded as having such an impairment.
               However, "handicapped" shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
               controlled substance, nor shall it include any person whose residency in the home
               would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of other individuals.
               The term "group home for the handicapped" shall not include work release
               facilities for convicts or ex-convicts, or other housing facilities serving as an
               alternative to incarceration.
               Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on the same premises
GUEST HOUSE:   with the main building, for use by temporary guests of the occupants of the
               premise. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities nor be rented or otherwise
               used as a separate dwelling.
HEIGHT (of a   The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the sign, excluding
sign):         decorative embellishments, to the grade of the adjacent street or the surface
               grade beneath the sign, whichever is less.
               An accessory use of a service character customarily conducted within a dwelling by
HOME           the residents thereof, which is clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling for
OCCUPATION:    living purposes and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
               evidence of such secondary use other than a small nameplate not more than two (2)
               square feet in area.
               In connection therewith, there is not involved the keeping, sorting or maintaining
               of an inventory, equipment or machinery; there is no commodity sold upon or from
               the premises or services rendered that require receipt or delivery of merchandise,
               goods or equipment by other than a passenger motor vehicle or by parcel or letter
               carrier mail service using vehicles typically employed in residential deliveries.
               No deliveries by semi-tractor or trailer are permitted.
               No other person is employed other than a member of the immediate family residing
               on the premises; no more than three (3) pupils, clients or customers can be
               present at the same time. No mechanical equipment is used except such as is
               normally used for purely domestic or household purposes, no commercial vehicle in
               connection with home occupation is stored or parked except within a fully enclosed
               private garage. There shall be no noise, odor, dust, vibration, smoke, glare,
               television or radio interference, fire hazard or any other hazard emanating from
               the dwelling so as to create a nuisance. No home occupation shall involve the use
               or production of noxious, toxic or harmful materials. One chair beauty salons
               shall be deemed a home occupation.
HOSPITAL OR    An institution open to the public in which patients or injured persons are given
SANITARIUM:    medical or surgical care; or for the care of contagious diseases or incurable
               patients.
HOTEL,         A building containing dwelling units or individual guest rooms, the majority of
APARTMENT:     which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service may be provided but
               kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
               A building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings which contains sleeping
HOTEL OR       accommodations for transients on a daily or weekly basis, whether such
MOTEL,         establishment is designated as a hotel, inn, automobile court, motel, motor hotel,
TRANSIENT:     motor inn, motor lodge, tourist cabin, tourist court, or otherwise. No residential
               units shall contain cooking facilities.
HOUSEHOLDER:   The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or lessee thereof.
IDENTIFICATION A sign whose copy is limited to the name and address of a building, institution,
SIGN:          or person and/or to the activity or occupation being identified.
ILLEGAL SIGN:  A sign which does not meet the requirements of this Code and which has not
               received legal nonconforming status.
ILLUMINATED    Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or outline illuminated by
SIGN:          electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the sign proper.
IMPERVIOUS     Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the infiltration of stormwater
SURFACE:       into previously undeveloped land. Impervious surface shall include driveways and
               parking areas. (see illustration 2.2)
INCIDENTAL     A small sign, emblem, or decal informing the public of goods, facilities, or
SIGN:          services available on the premises, e.g., a credit card sign, a sign indicating
               hours of business, or garage sale signs.
               A portion of the front yard, or side yard of a corner lot, adjacent to the parkway
INTERIOR       of a public street, lying between a property line adjacent to a public right-of-
PARKWAY:       way and a setback line established in Chapter 14 of this Title for landscape
               planting and screening.
KENNEL,        Any lot or premises on which two (2) or more dogs, cats or other domestic animals
COMMERCIAL:    over four (4) months in age are kept, boarded for compensation, or bred for sale.
               A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and analyzing.
LABORATORY:    Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not included within this
               definition.
LEGAL          Any sign covered by a sign permit or variance prior to the effective date of this
NONCONFORMING  Title.
SIGN:
               A residential facility for four (4) or more unrelated elderly persons (age 60 or
               older) within which skilled nursing care and related services is provided for
LIFE CARE      patients who require medical or rehabilitation services or nursing care. Also
FACILITY:      provided are living and sleeping facilities, shared food preparation service and
               major dining areas, and common recreation, social and service facilities for the
               exclusive use of all residents.
               An open hard-surfaced area of land other than a street or public way, the
LOADING AND    principal use of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks,
UNLOADING      tractors and trailers, to avoid undue interference with the public use of streets
SPACE, OFF-    and alleys. Such space shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width, forty five
STREET:        feet (45') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access
               aisles and maneuvering space.
LODGING OR     A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms where lodging is provided for
ROOMING HOUSE: compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to the public or to
               overnight guests.
LOT, BUILDING  Determined by dividing that area of a lot which is occupied or covered by the
COVERAGE:      total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including covered porches and
               accessory buildings, by the gross area of that lot. (see illustration 2.2)
LOT, CORNER:   A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets adjoining
               a curved street at the end of a block.
LOT DEPTH:     The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the mean
               direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, FRONTAGE: That boundary of a lot along a public street; for a corner lot the owner may elect
               either street line as the front lot line. (see illustration 2.3)
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot. (see illustration 2.3)
LOT LINE,      The lot line most nearly parallel to the front line. Other lot lines are side lot
REAR:          lines. (see illustration 2.3)
LOT, THROUGH:  A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets, and
               which is not a corner lot. (see illustration 2.3)
LOT WIDTH:     The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right angles to the
               lot depth at the established front building line.
LOT, ZONING:   (See Zoning Lot).
               For the purpose of Chapter 6 "Sign Regulations," maintenance shall mean the
MAINTENANCE:   cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective parts of a sign in a manner
               that does not alter the basic copy, design, or structure of the sign.
MANSARD:       A sloped roof or roof-like facade architecturally comparable to a building wall.
MARQUEE:       A permanent roof-like structure or canopy of rigid materials supported by and
               extending from the facade of a building (compare "Awning").
MOTOR FREIGHT  A building in which freight, brought to the building by motor truck, is assembled
TERMINAL:      and sorted for routing in intrastate and interstate shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR TRUCK    A premises where motor trucks, tractors, truck trailers and industrial and
REPAIR SHOP:   commercial vehicles in excess of one and one-half (1 1/2) tons capacity, or their
               bodies, are overhauled, rebuilt or repaired.
NAMEPLATE:     A nonelectric on-premise identification sign giving only the name, address, and/or
               occupation of an occupant or group of occupants.
               The gross acreage minus the acreage devoted to street rights-of-way, retention
NET ACREAGE:   basins, wetlands, mature tree cover, flood plains, stream corridors, areas with
               slopes greater than twenty percent (20%), and other natural features.
NET DENSITY:   The number of dwelling units per net acre of land including incentive bonuses.
               Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a use or lawfully established
NONCONFORMING  at the time of the passage of this Title or amendments thereto, which does not
USE:           conform after the passage of this Title or amendments thereto with the use
               regulations of this Title.
NURSING HOME   A private home for the care of children or the aged or infirm, or a place of rest
OR REST HOME:  for those suffering bodily disorders, but not including facilities for the
               treatment of sickness or injuries or for surgical care.
               An area having headroom of 7'-0" or more, that is used and inhabited, or kept for
OCCUPIED:      use on a normal basis. Occupied space may include basements, cellars, penthouse
               attic space and interior balconies or mezzanines if the space is regularly used or
               inhabited.
OFF-PREMISE    Any sign identifying or advertising a business, person, activity, goods, products
SIGN:          or services not located on the premises where the sign is installed and
               maintained.
ON-PREMISE     A sign which pertains to the use of the premises on which it is located.
SIGN:
OPEN SPACE,    Open space within or related to a development, not in individually owned lots,
COMMON:        which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of
               the development.
               A person recorded as such in official records. For the purpose of Chapter 6
               "Signs," the owner of the property on which a sign is located is presumed to be
OWNER:         the owner of the sign unless facts to the contrary are officially recorded or
               otherwise brought to the attention of the Administrator, e.g., a sign leased from
               a sign company.
PAINTED WALL   Any sign which is applied with paint or similar substance on the face of a wall.
SIGN:
PARAPET:       The extension of a false front or wall above a roof line.
PARCEL         A building in which commodities, sold at retail within the Dixon area are packaged
DELIVERY       by the retailer, assembled, sold and routed for delivery to retail customers
STATION:       located within the Dixon area.
               An open, hard-surfaced area of land, other than a street or public way, designed,
PARKING AREA,  arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger automobiles only;
PRIVATE:       for occupants of the building for which the parking area is developed and is
               accessory.
               An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or public way, intended to be
PARKING AREA,  used for the storage of passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles under one
PUBLIC:        and one-half (1 1/2) ton capacity, and available to the public, whether for
               compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE, Space within a public or private parking area exclusive of access drives or
AUTOMOBILE:    aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the storage of one passenger
               automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-half (1 1/2) ton capacity.
               Any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, paper, canvas, or other light
PENNANT:       material, typically designed to move when subject to pressure by the wind, and
               used for attracting the attention of the public. A pennant is usually, but not
               limited to being long, narrow and triangular in shape.
PERSON:        Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
               of any kind.
PHYSICAL       A recreational facility designed and equipped for the conduct of physical fitness
FITNESS        training and exercise.
CENTER:
               Planned Unit Development shall mean an area for which an overall site plan has
PLANNED UNIT   been prepared indicating land uses, open space allocations, circulation for
DEVELOPMENT:   pedestrians and automobiles, parking, setbacks, housing densities, building
               spacings, land coverage, landscaping relationships with adjoining areas and
               streets, building heights, accessory uses, and architectural treatment.
POLITICAL      For the purposes of Chapter 6, a temporary sign used in connection with a local,
SIGN:          State or national election or referendum.
PORCH:         A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the walls of a main structure and
               commonly open to the weather in part.
               A sign designed to be moved from place to place and not permanently affixed to the
PORTABLE SIGN: ground or to a structure or a building, and signs attached to or painted on
               vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is
               used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
PREMISES:      A parcel of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because of its unity
               of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real estate.
               A retail establishment that provides duplicating services using photocopy,
PRINT SHOP:    blueprint and offset printing equipment, including collating of booklets and
               reports.
PROJECTING     A sign, other than a flat wall sign, which is attached to and projects from a
SIGN:          building wall or other structure not specifically designed to support the sign.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
               Illinois Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or
PROCESSING     compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis
ORGANIZATION:  concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product. A
               "processing organization" shall include infuser organizations and infusers, as
               such terms are defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
               All of the land dedicated for the use as a highway, street or other public
               thoroughfare intended to provide for the movement of the general public,
PUBLIC RIGHT   including, but not limited to, the public area between the sidewalk and the curb
OF WAY:        or that public area within the dedicated right of way not used for vehicular or
               pedestrian traffic. Any and all such public rights of way within the corporate
               boundaries of the City are subject to the provisions of the Chapter.
PUBLIC         Any person or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish under public
UTILITY:       regulation to the public; electricity, gas, steam, telephone, cable television,
               telegraph, transportation or water.
RAILROAD       A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for track operation, but not
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  including depots, loading platforms, stations, train sheds, warehouses, car shops,
               car yards, locomotive shops or water towers.
REAL ESTATE    A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the lot or tract of land on which the
SIGN:          sign is located, or to the sale or lease of one or more structures or a portion
               thereof located thereon.
RECYCLING      A facility or site that is not a salvage yard and in which recoverable resources,
CENTER:        such as newspapers, glassware, and metal cans are collected, stored, flattened,
               crushed, or bundled, essentially by hand.
               A business that is not a salvage yard, at least some of which is enclosed, that
               accepts or purchases recyclable materials that have been diverted or recovered
RECYCLING      from material otherwise intended for permanent disposal, such as in a landfill,
PLANT:         and that then sorts and processes those materials so that they can safely and
               efficiently be resold to businesses or individuals that otherwise would be using
               and depleting new natural resources.
RESTAURANT,    Any business establishment whose primary purpose is to offer food and beverages
CARRY-OUT:     for sale and served in disposable containers for consumption off the premises, but
               is not necessarily a "fast food restaurant".
               An establishment that offers quick food service, which is accomplished through a
RESTAURANT,    limited menu of items already prepared and held for service, or prepared, fried or
FAST FOOD:     griddled quickly or heated in a device such as a microwave oven. Orders are not
               generally taken at the customer's table and food is generally served in disposable
               wrapping or containers.
               Any business establishment, the primary purpose of which is to offer food and
RESTAURANT,    beverages for sale and served for consumption at tables in nondisposable
SIT-DOWN:      containers on the premises. Dancing and live entertainment is permitted in a sit-
               down restaurant as a special use within specific zoning districts.
               An open area where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar materials are
SALVAGE YARD:  bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including
               auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely
               within a completely enclosed building.
SELF-SERVICE   A building consisting of individual, small, self-contained units that are leased
STORAGE        or owned for the storage of business and household goods or contractor's supplies.
FACILITY:
               One or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings or combinations of
SENIOR CITIZEN the above and related facilities specifically designed for persons sixty (60)
HOUSING:       years of age or older or couples where at least one person is sixty (60) years of
               age or older. This does not include a development that contains convalescent or
               nursing facilities.
               The part of a property on a corner lot on which no sign or other object shall
               intrude upon the air space between the height of twenty four inches (24") and
SIGHT          eight feet (8'). This restriction shall not include the standard upon which a free
CLEARANCE      standing sign rests. The triangle shall be formed as follows: beginning at the
TRIANGLE:      corner of the property where the property line intersects, a distance of thirty
               five feet (35') shall be measured along each property line. From the end of those
               lines another line shall be made connecting the two (2) ends. The triangle formed
               shall be known as the sight clearance triangle.
               Every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated sign,
               projecting sign, temporary sign, marquee, awning, canopy, and street clock, and
SIGN:          shall include any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display illustration
               or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same
               is placed out of doors in view of the general public.
SIGN           A person or entity who performs work for compensation in connection with the
CONTRACTOR:    erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, improvement,
               maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign.
SIGN FACING OR The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message is displayed
SURFACE:       or illustrated on the sign.
               The total exposed surface within a continuous perimeter composed of a single
SIGN SURFACE   rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters, lettering, illustrations,
AREA:          ornamentations, or other figures, together with any material, or color used as an
               integral part of the display or to differentiate the sign from the background on
               which it is placed.
               The area of a lot or parcel between a building and a property line, exclusive of
SITE INTERIOR: parking lots and impervious surfaces, which is not part of an interior parkway or
               buffer yard, as defined herein, for the purpose of establishing landscape
               requirements in Chapter 14 of this Title.
SPECIAL USE:   Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted, subject to the
               provisions of Chapter 13 of this Title.
STABLE,        Any building, other than a private stable, designed, arranged, used or intended to
LIVERY:        be used for the storage of horses and horse-drawn vehicles or both.
               That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
               surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then the
STORY:         space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a story
               exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an additional story
               for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STREET:        A public way other than an alley.
STREET LINE:   A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel, from a street.
STRUCTURE:     Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or is
               attached to something having location on the ground.
SUSPENDED      A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal plane surface and is
SIGN:          supported by such surface.
               A prefabricated structure, commonly comprised of a lightweight metal frame and a
TEMPORARY      fabric roof which is intended as a shelter for motor vehicles or other similar
CARPORT:       equipment and which covers an area in excess of one hundred twenty (120) square
               feet.
               As regulated by Chapter 6, temporary signs shall include any sign, banner,
TEMPORARY      pennant, or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric,
SIGN:          cardboard, wall board or other light materials, with or without frames, intended
               to be displayed for a short period of time only.
               A level and rather narrow plane, or platform, which for the purpose of this Title
TERRACE, OPEN: is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure, and which is
               constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the average level of the
               adjoining ground.
TOURIST COURT, A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual sleeping or living
MOTOR LODGE,   units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with
MOTELS:        garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit, including auto
               courts, motels, motor lodges or other similar type facilities.
TOURIST HOME:  A dwelling in which accommodations are provided or offered for transient guests.
TRAILER CAMP,  Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more than one family living in an
HOUSE:         automobile house trailer.
TRAILER,       A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and to be
HOUSE:         used for human habitation or for carrying persons and property, including a
               trailer coach or house trailer.
               An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
TRANSPORTING   Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a Cannabis Business Establishment
ORGANIZATION:  or a community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
               Training Pilot Program.
TRUCK PARKING  Any land used or intended to be used for the storage or parking of trucks,
AREA:          tractors, truck trailers, and including commercial vehicles, while not loading or
               unloading, and which exceed one and one-half (1 1/2) tons in capacity.
USE:           The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
               intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
USED CAR LOT:  A zoning lot for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
               intended for the sale, lease, or maintenance of used vehicles.
WALL SIGN:     Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building, and within six
               (6") inches of such wall.
WINDOW AREA:   Any transparent area on a facade through which the interior of a premises may be
               viewed from outside.
WINDOW SIGN:   Any sign, either permanent or temporary, which is affixed or placed so that its
               message or image is read as a part of the total composition of a window area.
               An open space on the same zoning lot with a main building, which is unoccupied and
               unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise permitted in
YARD:          this Title, and which extends along a lot line and at right angles thereto to a
               depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the district in which the
               zoning lot is located.
YARD, BUFFER:  A landscaped area intended to separate and partially obstruct the view of two
               adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
YARD, FRONT:   A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying between the
               front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building. (see illustration 2.4)
YARD, REAR:    A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying between the
               rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building. (see illustration 2.4)
               That part of the yard lying between the main building and a side lot line, and
YARD, SIDE:    extending from the required front yard, or from the front lot line, if there is no
               required front yard, to the required rear yard. (see illustration 2.4)
ZONING LOT:    A plot of ground made up of one or more parcels which is or may be occupied by a
               building or buildings including the open spaces required by this Title.
               The maps incorporated into this Title as a part thereof. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997;
ZONING MAPS:   amd. Ord. 2300, 2-5-2001; Ord. 2423, 12-2-2002; Ord. 2490, 7-6-2004; Ord. 3178,
               12-2-2019)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2849.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2851.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2853.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2855.png]
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Scope Of Regulations
6-3-2: Separability
6-3-3: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
6-3-4: Permits
6-3-5: Building Height, Bulk And Lot Coverage
6-3-6: Permitted Obstructions In Required Building Setback Areas
6-3-7: Special Height Considerations
6-3-8: Special Density Considerations
6-3-9: Location Of Buildings
6-3-10: Buildings Under Construction
6-3-11: Number Of Buildings On A Zoning Lot
6-3-12: Accessory Uses Outside Commercial Buildings
6-3-13: Cannabis Business Establishments
6-3-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than that which is permitted in the district in which the building or
land is located. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-2: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence, or provision of this
ordinance shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, such judgement shall not affect, impair, invalidate, or nullify the
remainder of this ordinance, but the effect thereof shall be confined to the
section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence, or provision immediately
involved in the controversy in which judgement or decree shall be rendered.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-3: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-4: PERMITS: 
No application for a building permit or other permit or license, or for a
certificate of occupancy, shall be approved by the Building Official, and no
permit or license shall be issued by any other City department, which would
authorize the use or change in use of any land or building contrary to the
provisions of this Title, or the erection, moving, alteration, enlargement or
occupancy of any building designed or intended to be used for a purpose or in a
manner contrary to the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-5: BUILDING HEIGHT, BULK AND LOT COVERAGE:
   (A)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, relocated or structurally
altered so as to have a greater height or bulk, a higher ratio of lot coverage,
or smaller open space about it than is permissible under the limitations set
forth herein for the district in which such building is located.
   (B)   No space allocated to a building or dwelling group for the purpose of
complying with the side, rear or front yard, or court or other open space or
lot area requirements of this Title shall thereafter, by reason of change in
ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy the yard, court open
space or lot area requirements of any other building or dwelling group.
   (C)   No usable open space or off-street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter for any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth, nor further reduced if already less
than said minimum requirements.
   (D)   Streets Excluded: No part of any street easement or right-of-way,
either public or private, shall be included in determining the area of any lot.
   (E)   Front Yards:
      1.   More Restrictive Requirements: Whenever any ordinance or a covenant
entered into by the City stipulates a front yard or setback requirement along
any street in any district which is greater than the front yard requirement of
the zoning district in which it is located, then the greater requirement shall
apply.
      2.   Adjacent Front Yard Requirements: Where two (2) districts with
different front yard requirements are located adjacent to each other without a
street or alley between them, the greater front yard requirement shall extend
into and be effective in the district having the lesser front yard requirement
for each contiguous lot with the same block along the frontage of a commonly
shared street.
      3.   Established Front Yard Setbacks: In the event fifty percent (50%) or
more of the lots fronting on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets are improved with principal structures that have setbacks greater in
depth than required for such zoning district in this Title, the average of the
existing front yard setbacks of such structures upon all such improved lots
between such streets shall be the established front yard setback for such
block. In such event, no new structure or any addition to an existing structure
shall be erected closer to the street than the established front yard setback.
      4.   Corner Lots: Where lots have street frontage on more than one side,
a front yard shall be provided on each side adjacent to a street.
   (F)   Rear Yards Adjacent To Alley: Whenever a lot abuts a public alley,
one-half (1/2) of the width of that alley may be considered as a portion of the
required rear yard.
   (G)   Intersection Visibility: Landscaping must be designed and installed to
minimize potential obstruction of critical sight lines. All landscape planting
shall be so designed as to avoid obstruction of a motorist's vision at the
intersections of outlet access drives and ring roads, access roads, or
municipal streets in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Unobstructed visibility between two feet (2') and six feet (6')
above the height of the paved surface of the access road must be maintained at
all intersections. To maintain this visibility, no shrubs or other landscape
material which will reach a mature height greater than two feet (2') shall be
permitted within ten feet (10') of the edge of pavement of a primary
thoroughfare, or five feet (5') from the edge of pavement of a lesser roadway,
for a distance of forty feet (40') from the edge of pavement (see Illustration
3.1).
      2.   Trees are allowed in these intersection visibility areas if the
lowest branching begins not less than eight feet (8') above the pavement of the
adjacent roadways. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-6: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED BUILDING SETBACK AREAS:
Every part of a required yard setback area shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed, except for the following:
   (A)   An open terrace, but not including a roofed over porch or terrace, may
occupy a front yard; provided, the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a
depth of not less than fifteen feet (15').
   (B)   A one-story bay window may project into a front yard not more than
three feet (3').
   (C)   Overhanging eaves, sills, cornices, including gutters and ornamental
features, may project over the minimum required side yard not more than
eighteen inches (18").
   (D)   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways,
and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a rear yard of not more
than five feet (5’);
   (E)   Steps and stoops not extending more than three feet (3') above grade
and consisting only of the minimum area necessary for a safe exit;
   (F)   Terraces, and patios projecting into required yards, but not closer
than two feet (2') to the adjacent property line;
   (G)   Ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into the rear yard;
   (H)   Accessory buildings and uses as restricted elsewhere in this Title;
   (I)   Driveways and parking spaces as restricted in this Title;
   (J)   Freestanding yard lights in front yards, providing that in residential
districts such lights do not exceed seven feet (7'), six inches (6"), in
height, nor shall such light be permitted to increase the level of illumination
at the side lot line more than one-half (1/2) foot candle;
   (K)   Fences erected on lot lines and in required yards, providing such
fences comply with Chapter 9 of Title 7 of the City Code;
   (L)   Any stone, paved or other surfaced patio or wooden deck constructed at
or below a level which is twelve inches (12") above grade, and which, except
for property lying within an area for which a planned residential permit has
been issued under Chapter 12, does not lie within two feet (2') of the property
line closest to the point thereof.
   (M)   Basketball backboards and/or hoops attached to any principal or
accessory building in any single-family residential district. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997)
6-3-7: SPECIAL HEIGHT CONSIDERATIONS:
The height requirements below further qualify the height requirements of this
Title:
   (A)   Height Exceptions: Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire
towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances are all exempt from the height requirements established in this
Title. However, they may be subject to other ordinances of the City of Dixon.
   (B)   Antennae: Radio, radar, citizens band, and television receiving or
transmitting antennae may be erected on the roof of a main structure to a
height not exceeding twelve feet (12') above the highest point on the roof of
said main structure, but not closer to any property line than twelve feet
(12'). (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-8: SPECIAL DENSITY CONSIDERATIONS:
   (A)   Density Fractions: When the calculation of the number of dwelling
units permitted on a lot or parcel results in a fraction the following rules
shall apply:
   (B)   When the density calculation results in a fraction, any fraction up to
and including one-half (1/2 or .5) shall be disregarded. Fractions of over one-
half (1/2 or .5) shall be interpreted as permitting the next highest whole
number of dwelling units. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-9: LOCATION OF BUILDINGS:
Except as otherwise provided for in this Title, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot, or parcel of land, which abuts upon a public
street or permanent easement of access to a public street, which easement shall
have a minimum width of twenty-five feet (25'), unless an easement of lesser
width was of record prior to the adoption of this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-10: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this Title, or amendment thereto,
and upon which building construction has been diligently carried on; and
provided further, that such building shall be completed within one (1) year
from the date of passage and publication of this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-11: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT: 
Except in the case of planned unit developments, every residential building
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a zoning lot as
herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one (1) such building
on one (1) zoning lot. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2841.png]
 
6-3-12: ACCESSORY USES OUTSIDE COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS:
In business districts no principal use or accessory use may be conducted
outside of a permanently constructed building, nor shall any outdoor storage or
storage inside a trailer be permitted, except as provided below:
   (A)   Outdoor accessory uses for the purpose of direct retail sales only,
not for storage, and temporary exterior storage may be permitted by the
Building Official.
   (B)   Permanent exterior storage or display of inventory, business vehicles
or personal vehicles is prohibited without the issuance of a permit approved by
the City Council. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-3-13: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
   (A)   Applicability: This section shall apply to all existing and proposed
cannabis business establishments in the city.
   (B)   License Required: All cannabis business establishments operating
within the city shall be required to obtain and hold a license issued by the
city as set forth in section
5-24-2 of the city code and shall be further licensed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (C)   Compliance With State Law: Cannabis business establishments shall at
all times comply with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments:
      1.   Cannabis business establishments may be located only in those zoning
districts where specifically allowed pursuant to the provisions of this Title.
No cannabis business establishments shall be located in residential districts
of the city.
      2.   No cannabis business establishment shall be located closer than one
hundred feet (100’) from the property line of a pre-existing property zoned for
residential purposes.
      3.   No cannabis business establishment shall be located closer than one
hundred feet (100’) from the property line of any pre-existing:
         (a)   Public or private nursery school, preschool or elementary or
secondary school;
         (b)   Day care center, day care home, residential care home, child
care center or youth facility;
         (c)   Recreation center or facility;
         (d)   Public playground, park or library;
         (e)   Place of religious worship.
      4.   No dispensing organization shall be located within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500’) of the property line of a pre-existing dispensing
organization.
      5.   No craft grower shall be located within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500’) of the property line of a pre-existing craft grower or
cultivation center.
      6.   No cultivation center shall be located within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500’) of the property line of a pre-existing cultivation center
or craft grower.
   (E)   Co-Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments: Except as hereafter
set forth with respect to dispensing organizations and craft growers, no
cannabis business establishment may co-locate on the same premises with another
cannabis business establishment. Dispensing organizations and craft growers may
co-locate on the same premises provided that each such cannabis business
establishment is properly licensed and zoned in accordance with the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act and this title.
   (F)   Parking: The lighting of parking facilities of all cannabis business
establishments shall be kept in good working order and of sufficient wattage
for the appropriate use of security cameras and the safety of customers and
employees. The parking facilities of a dispensing organization must be accessed
directly from a public street and be visible from a public street. (Ord. 3178,
12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
PART A   NONCONFORMING USES
6-4-1: Continuance Of Use
6-4-2: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Uses
6-4-3: Change Of Use
PART B   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
6-4-4: Repair Or Alteration Of Nonconforming Structures
6-4-5: Damage And Destruction Of Nonconforming Structures
PART C   NONCONFORMING LOTS
6-4-6: Development Prohibited
6-4-7: Variation Standards For Nonconforming Lots
6-4-7.1: Exception
PART D   TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND
BUILDINGS
6-4-8: Conditions For Removal
PART E   EXEMPTIONS
6-4-9: Exemptions
PART A:   NONCONFORMING USES
6-4-1: CONTINUANCE OF USE:
   (A)   Any lawfully established use of a building or land, at the effective
date of this Title or of amendments thereto that does not conform to the use
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located shall be deemed to
be a legal nonconforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   Except as otherwise permitted herein, any legal nonconforming building
or structure may be continued in use provided there is no physical change other
than necessary maintenance and repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
   (C)   Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date of this Title, or of amendments thereto, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans; provided, construction is started within
six (6) months and diligently prosecuted to completion. The building shall
thereafter be deemed a legal nonconforming use. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-4-2: DISCONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the
provisions of this Title, such premises shall not thereafter be used or
occupied by any nonconforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part
thereof, has been discontinued for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months,
or for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive months if the building was
originally designed and constructed for a nonresidential use, or whenever there
is evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a nonconforming
use, such use shall not after being discontinued or abandoned be reestablished,
and the use of the premises thereafter shall conform with the use regulations
of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (C)   Except as provided in Chapter 13, Part J, where no enclosed building
is involved, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for a period of six (6)
consecutive months shall constitute abandonment.
   (D)   A nonconforming use not authorized by the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance in effect at the time the original Zoning Ordinance or any amendments
thereto became effective shall be discontinued and not reestablished. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
6-4-3: CHANGE OF USE:
   (A)   A nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part thereof, may
be changed to a use of the same or of a more restricted character, but may not
thereafter be changed to any less restricted use, except as provided in Chapter
13, Part J.
   (B)   Except as provided in Chapter 13, Part J, any part of a building,
structure or land occupied by a nonconforming use which is changed to or
replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of this Title shall not
thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART B:    NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
6-4-4: REPAIR OR ALTERATION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations.
   (B)   No structural alterations shall be made to a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law.
      2.   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconformity.
      3.   A building containing a residential nonconforming use may be altered
in any way to improve livability; provided no structural alteration shall be
made which would increase the number of dwelling units or the bulk of the
building.
      4.   Except as provided in Chapter 13, Part J, no nonconforming use may
be enlarged or extended in such a way as to occupy any required usable open
space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the zoning lot as it existed at the
effective date of this Title, or any amendments thereto, or to displace any
conforming use in the same building, or on the same building, or on the same
parcel. Any nonconforming use, however, may be expanded or enlarged within the
boundaries of its zoning lot so long as such expansion or enlargement does not
occupy any required usable open space on the lot.
   (C)   Any structure constructed in conformance with the bulk and setback
regulations in effect prior to the effective date of this Title shall not
become nonconforming as a result of the application of the new bulk and setback
regulations in this Title. However, except as provided in Section
6-4-9, any addition or enlargement to a nonconforming structure must be made in
conformance with the bulk and setback regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-4-5: DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
   (A)   If a nonconforming building or other structure is partially or totally
damaged or destroyed by any means the building or other structure may be
reconstructed or restored in the same location in which the building or other
structure existed prior to the total or partial destruction. The occupancy or
use of the building which existed at the time of total or partial destruction
may be continued in accordance with the regulations of this Chapter 4.
   (B)   Replacement, alteration or repair of the building or other structure
must be started within a period of one (1) year of the event and diligently
prosecuted to completion. Failure to initiate or conclude restoration within
these limits shall constitute abandonment as defined in Section
6-4-2. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART C:    NONCONFORMING LOTS
6-4-6: DEVELOPMENT PROHIBITED:
Except as provided in Chapter 13, Part J, and in Section
6-4-7.1 below, no principal use or structure shall be established on a lot of
record unless the lot conforms with the lot area and lot width requirements
established in this Title for the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2094, 6-15-98)
6-4-7: VARIATION STANDARDS FOR NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   (A)   No variation from the restriction in Section
6-4-6 above shall be granted unless the property owner can demonstrate that the
following standards have been met, in addition to the general standards for
granting a variation set forth in Section
6-13-39 of this Title:
      1.   The lot met the lot area and lot width requirements of the zoning
ordinances in effect at the time the owner acquired the lot and qualifies for a
variation under Section
6-13-40; and
      2.   At no time after October 6, 1980 was the lot held in common
ownership with any abutting land which, in combination with the lot in
question, would create a building site meeting the lot area and lot width
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located; and
      3.   Over fifty percent (50%) of the lots within five hundred feet (500’)
of the lot in question have been developed as individual building sites,
containing one principal building or structure each, which do not meet the lot
width or lot area requirement for the zoning district in which they are
located; and the owners of abutting lots refuse to sell or convey portions of
those lots that could be added to the lot in order to make it meet the area and
width requirements without reducing the lot area, lot width, and yards required
by this Title for any such abutting lot. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2094,
6-15-98)
6-4-7.1: EXCEPTION:
   (A)   It shall not be necessary to obtain a variation from the restrictions
contained in Section
6-4-6 if a property owner can demonstrate to the Building Inspector that the
following standards have been met:
      1.   The lot on which the structure is to be established conformed to the
lot area and the lot width requirements of the zoning ordinance in effect at
the time the lot was platted; and
      2.   The lot dimensions are not less than fifty feet by one hundred feet
(50’ by 100’); and
      3.   The lot is in an R-1 district. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2094,
6-15-98)
PART D:   TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND
BUILDINGS:
6-4-8:   CONDITIONS FOR REMOVAL:
   (A)   Except as provided in Chapter 13, Part J, the period of time during
which the following nonconforming uses, buildings, or structures may continue
or remain shall be limited to two (2) years from the effective date of this
Title, or of any amendment thereto which causes the use to be nonconforming.
Every such nonconforming use shall be completely removed from the premises at
the expiration of the two (2) year period.
      1.   Any nonconforming building or structure having an assessed valuation
not in excess of One Thousand Dollars ($1000.00) on the effective date of this
Title.
      2.   Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed building is
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
such use, or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building.
PART E:   EXEMPTIONS
6-4-9: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Wherever a lawfully existing building, use or other structure
otherwise conforms to the use regulations of this Title, but is nonconforming
only in the particular manner specified below, the building, and use thereof
shall be exempt from the requirements of Section 6-4-5.
      1.   In any residential district, where a dwelling is nonconforming only
as to the number of dwelling units it contains; provided, no such building
shall be altered in any way so as to increase the number of dwelling units
therein.
      2.   In any R-3 District, where a use permitted in B-1 District occupies
ground floor space with a multiple-family dwelling located on a corner lot.
      3.   In any business or manufacturing district, where the use is less
distant from a residential district than that specified in the regulations for
the district in which it is located. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 5
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Conformance With Requirements For Main Buildings
6-5-2: Location
6-5-3: Construction Restrictions
6-5-4: Location On Reversed Corner Lot
6-5-5: Size Of Accessory Structures
6-5-6: Restrictions On Use As A Dwelling
6-5-1: CONFORMANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR MAIN BUILDINGS:
Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main building, it
shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this Title
applicable to the main building. (see illustration 5.1) (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-5-2: LOCATION:
An accessory building may not be located nearer to any interior lot line than
that permitted for the main building, when any part of the accessory building
is on line with the setback of the main building, if extended. (see
illustration 5.2) However, when an accessory building is located in the rear
yard, it may then be located within three feet (3') of the interior lot line,
but not nearer than five feet (5') of the rear lot line. (see illustration 5.3)
Tennis courts and swimming pools (not including pool decks) must be at least
six feet (6') from the side and rear lot lines.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975, 1-6-1977)
6-5-3: CONSTRUCTION RESTRICTIONS:
An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment or
construction of the main building to which it is accessory. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997)
6-5-4: LOCATION ON REVERSED CORNER LOT:
No accessory building shall be located on a reversed corner lot beyond the
front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear. (see illustration 5.4)
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-5-5: SIZE OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The footprint for all accessory structures within the rear yard shall not
exceed thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard of any zoning district. When no
rear yard is required the size of the footprint of the accessory building shall
be included in the lot coverage calculation for the main structure. The square
footage of a guest house (see definition of "guest house" in Chapter 2) may be
no greater than six hundred (600) square feet.
The following accessory structures shall comply with the additional standards
and procedures set forth below:
   (A)   Satellite Dish Antennas:
      1.   A satellite dish antenna shall be treated as a permitted use in any
zoning district, provided that:
         (a)   A satellite dish installed on the roof of a building, shall not
be larger than six feet (6') in diameter, does not project more than two feet
(2') above the highest point of the roof line, is the same or similar color of
the roof, and the bottom of the dish is no more than eighteen inches (18")
above the roof; or
         (b)   The satellite dish is installed on the ground, a pad, a tower,
or any other structure besides a building, is located between the principal
structure and the rear lot line, and does not exceed an overall diameter of
twelve feet (12') or an overall height of fifteen inches (15").
   (B)   Fences: See Title 7, Chapter 9 of the City Code. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-5-6: RESTRICTIONS ON USE AS A DWELLING:
No accessory building shall be used for permanent occupancy by others as a
separate housekeeping unit from the primary residents. Accessory structures may
be occupied by servants of the family occupying the main structure or as guest
quarters provided such facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests
of the primary household and that no individual or group of guests occupies the
unit for more than three (3) months of any calendar year. (For other
restrictions see "guest house" definition in Chapter 2) (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2845.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2847.png]
 
CHAPTER 6
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Short Title
6-6-2: Purpose Of Sign Regulations
6-6-3: Scope
6-6-4: Permits Required
6-6-5: Application For Sign Permit
6-6-6: Illuminated Signs
6-6-7: Permit Issued If Application In Order
6-6-8: Permit Fee
6-6-9: Denial Of Sign Permit
6-6-10: Final Inspection
6-6-11: Lapse Of Sign Permit
6-6-12: Permit Revocable At Any Time
6-6-13: Unsafe And Unlawful Signs
6-6-14: Removal Of Certain Signs
6-6-15: Painting Required Every Two Years
6-6-16: Exemptions
6-6-17: Bond And Insurance Requirements
6-6-18: Sign Insurance Required
6-6-19: Sign Contractor's Registration Fee
6-6-20: Obstructions To Doors, Windows Or Fire Escapes
6-6-21: Signs Not To Constitute Traffic Hazards
6-6-22: Prohibited Signs
6-6-23: Signs In Areas Zoned Residential
6-6-24: Signs In Areas Zoned Business Or Manufacturing
6-6-25: For Sale Signs In Areas Zoned Business Or Manufacturing
6-6-26: Wall Signs
6-6-27: Free Standing Signs
6-6-28: Billboards
6-6-29: Signs Accessory To Shopping Centers
6-6-30: Temporary Signs
6-6-31: Nonconforming Existing Signs
6-6-32: Revocation
6-6-33: Penalties
6-6-34: Cannabis
6-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the Sign Regulations. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-2: PURPOSE OF SIGN REGULATIONS:
This Chapter of the Zoning Ordinance is established to create the standards for
a comprehensive and balanced system of sign regulations for the following
purposes:
   (A)   To encourage, as a means of communication in the City of Dixon, the
employment of signs which are:
      1.   Compatible with their surroundings.
      2.   Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain.
      3.   Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors.
      4.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
      5.   Respectful of the reasonable rights of other sign owners and
property owners.
   (B)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety, morals and
welfare.
   (C)   To improve pedestrian and traffic safety.
   (D)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the City's
ability to attract sources of economic development by promoting the reasonable,
orderly and effective display of signs.
   (E)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and
private property.
   (F)   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses.
   (G)   To ensure that signs are designed as integral architectural elements
of the building and site to which they principally relate. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-3: SCOPE:
No sign shall be constructed, erected, initially painted, converted, altered,
rebuilt, enlarged, remodeled, relocated or expanded until a permit for such
sign has been obtained in accordance with the standards and procedures set out
in this Chapter. However, no permit shall be required for routine maintenance
as defined herein. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or
maintain within the City any sign or other advertising structure, as defined in
Chapter 2, without first obtaining a sign permit from the Building Official and
making payment of the fee required by Section
6-6-8. All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions
of the Electrical Code. No permit shall be required for routine maintenance of
a sign. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-5: APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT: 
Application for sign permits shall be made upon a form provided by the Building
Official, and shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
   (C)   Position of the sign or other advertising in relation to nearby
buildings or structures.
   (D)   One blueprint or ink drawing of the plans and specifications and
method of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground.
   (E)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this and all other laws and ordinances of the City.
   (F)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting structure.
   (G)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected.
   (H)   Insurance policy or bond as required by Sections 6-6-17 and 6-6-18.
   (I)   Such other information as the Building Official shall require to show
full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the City. The
above information may be waived by the Building Official where not applicable
due to site or other conditions. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-
1997)
6-6-6: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
The application for a permit for erection of a sign or other advertising
structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used, shall
provide adequate plans and specifications respecting all wiring and connections
to determine if the same complies with the Electrical Code of the City. The
Building Official shall approve said application and issue a permit only if the
plans and specifications comply with said Electrical Code. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-7: PERMIT ISSUED IF APPLICATION IN ORDER:
It shall be the duty of the Building Official, upon the filing of an
application for a sign permit, to examine such plans and specifications and
other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to erect the sign or
other advertising structure, and if it shall appear that the proposed structure
is in compliance with all the requirements of this Chapter and all other laws
and ordinances of the City, he shall then issue the sign permit. If the work
authorized under a sign permit has not been completed within one hundred eighty
(180) days after date of issuance, the said permit shall become null and void.
If work authorized by said permit is suspended or abandoned for six (6) months
at any time after the work has commenced, a new permit shall be first obtained
prior to recommencing work and the fee shall be the amount required for a new
permit for such work. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-8: PERMIT FEE:
Every applicant, before being granted a permit hereunder shall pay the
following permit fee for each such sign or other advertising structure,
regulated by this Chapter.
   (A)   Fifty cents ($.50) per square foot for the first fifty (50) square
feet of sign area.
   (B)   Twenty five cents ($.25) per square foot for each square foot of sign
area thereafter.
   (C)   A minimum permit fee of five dollars ($5.00) shall be paid if the sign
has an area less than ten (10) square feet.
   (D)   Fees charged for permits issued and appeals shall be as established
and may be, from time to time, amended by the City Council.
Persons guilty of erecting or maintaining a sign without first securing the
necessary permit shall be subject to a penalty fee of fifty percent (50%) of
the normal fee amount in addition to the obligation to pay the normal fee in
addition to any other remedies the City may have under the City Code. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-9: DENIAL OF SIGN PERMIT: 
   (A)   If an application for a sign permit is denied by the Building
Official, he shall give written notice of the denial to the applicant, together
with a written statement of the reason for the denial. The Building Official
may suspend or revoke an issued permit for any false statement or
misrepresentation of fact in the application. Appeal of said denial shall be
made to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be made by filing a
petition to the Zoning Board of Appeals to request a hearing at their next
meeting, and said request for hearing shall be made in writing to the Building
Official.
   (B)   The decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be appealed by the
applicant to the City Council. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-10: FINAL INSPECTION:
   (A)   Any person installing, altering or relocating a sign for which a
permit has been issued shall notify the Building Official upon completion of
the work. The Building Official may require a final inspection, including an
electrical inspection and inspection of footings on free standing signs.
   (B)   The Building Official may require in writing upon issuance of a permit
that he be notified for inspection prior to the installation of certain signs.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-11: LAPSE OF SIGN PERMIT:  
A sign permit shall lapse if the business activity on the zoning lot is
discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more, and is not
renewed within sixty 60 days of a notice from the City to the last permittee.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-12: PERMIT REVOCABLE AT ANY TIME:
All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this Chapter or any
amendment thereto, are mere licenses revocable at any time by the Building
Official upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any provisions of
this Chapter and all such permits shall contain this provision. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-13: UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS:
   (A)   If the Building Official shall find that any sign or other advertising
structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public,
or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, he shall
give written notice to the owner thereof. If the owner fails to remove or alter
the structure so as to comply with the standards herein set forth within twenty
(20) days after such notice, such sign or other advertising structure may be
removed or altered to comply by the Building Official at the expense of the
owner. The Building Official shall refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or
owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed.
   (B)   The Building Official may cause any sign or other advertising
structure which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
summarily and without notice. Signs removed in this manner must present a
hazard to the public safety as defined in Section 121.0 of the BOCA Building
Code. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-14: REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS: 
   (A)   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona
fide business conducted, or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by
the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building or
structure upon which such sign may be found within six (6) months after written
notification from the Building Official, and, upon failure to comply with such
notice within the time specified in such order, the Building Official is hereby
authorized to cause removal of such sign, and any expense incident thereto
shall be paid by the owner of the building or structure to which such sign is
attached.
   (B)   The Building Official may cause the removal of an illegal sign in
cases of emergency, or for failure to comply with the written orders of removal
or repair. After removal or demolition of the sign, a notice shall be mailed to
the sign owner and the property owner stating the nature of the work and the
date on which it was performed and demanding payment of the costs as certified
by the Building Official together with an additional ten percent (10%) for
inspection and incidental costs. For purposes of this paragraph, the sign owner
and property owner shall be jointly and severally liable for the removal or
demolition of the sign and for the ten percent (10%) charge for inspection and
incidental costs.
   (C)   If the amount specified in the notice is not paid within thirty (30)
days of the notice, it shall become a lien against the property of the sign
owner.
   (D)   The owner of the property upon which the sign is located shall be
presumed to be the owner of all signs thereon unless facts to the contrary are
brought to the attention of the Building Official, as in the case of a leased
sign.
   (E)   For purposes of removal, the definition of sign shall include sign
embellishments and structures designed specifically to support the sign. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-15: PAINTING REQUIRED EVERY TWO YEARS: 
The owner of any sign as defined and regulated by this Chapter shall be
required to have properly painted at least once every two (2) years all parts
and supports of the said sign, unless the same are galvanized or otherwise
treated to prevent rust. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-16: EXEMPTIONS: 
The provisions and regulations of this Chapter shall not apply to the following
signs, provided however, said signs shall be subject to the provisions of
Section
6-6-13, and the maintenance and public safety requirements of this Chapter.
   (A)   Real estate signs not exceeding six (6) square feet in area which
advertise the sale of the premises upon which said signs are located, and shall
also comply with the requirements of Section
6-6-23 (Signs in Areas Zoned Residential).
   (B)   Professional name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area.
   (C)   Signs painted on the exterior surface of a building or structure,
provided, however, if said signs have raised borders, letters, characters,
decorations or lighting appliances, they shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of this Chapter.
   (D)   Bulletin boards not over sixteen (16) square feet in area for public,
charitable or religious institutions when the same are located on the premises
of said institutions.
   (E)   Construction signs when placed upon work under construction, and not
exceeding sixty four (64) square feet in area, provided that such signs shall
be erected no more than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of
construction for which a valid building permit has been issued, shall be
confined to the site of construction and shall be removed immediately upon
completion of construction and prior to occupancy. Construction signs shall be
prohibited in residential districts.
   (F)   Nameplates not exceeding two (2') square feet in area.
   (G)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials.
   (H)   Traffic or other Municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be
approved by the City Council.
   (I)   Flags, emblems, or insignia of any nation or political subdivision or
corporate flag.
   (J)   Banner signs of a primarily decorative nature which are incidental,
customary and commonly associated with any national, local or religious
holiday.
   (K)   Signs located within the interior of any building or stadium or within
an enclosed lobby or court of any building, and signs for and located within
the inner or outer lobby, court or entrance of any theater. This provision does
not exempt such signs from the structural, electrical or materials
specifications as set out in this Chapter.
   (L)   "No trespassing" or "no dumping" signs which do not exceed one and
one--half (1/2) square feet in area and do not exceed four (4) in number per
premises, except that permission may be obtained from the Building Official for
any additional signs under warranted circumstances.
   (M)   Temporary signs pertaining to civic, philanthropic, educational or
religious organizations, provided said sign does not exceed eight (8) square
feet in area, is posted not more than fourteen (14) days prior to said event
and is removed not more than three (3) days after said event. No sign shall be
located in the public right-of-way.
   (N)   Signs warning the public of the existence of danger, but containing no
advertising material.
   (O)   Incidental signs. (See Chapter 2 "Definitions")
   (P)   Subdivision Identification Signs. Subdivision and multiple family
complex identity signs, provided that:
      1.   Only one sign is erected on each corner at each primary entry to the
subdivision or complex; and
      2.   If there is more than one primary entrance, the separation between
signs along the perimeter of the complex shall be at least two hundred (200)
feet; and
      3.   The sign area of an individual sign does not exceed fifty (50)
square feet on both sides of a two-sided sign, or fifty (50) square feet on a
one-sided sign; and
      4.   The sign contains only the name of the subdivision or complex and
appropriate logo, and does not contain a commercial message; and
      5.   The sign is located outside of the "site clearance triangle",
defined in Chapter 2, Section
6-2-3A; and
      6.   The sign has a landscaped base.
   (Q)   Window Signs. Signs affixed to the inside of a window, advertising
commercial situations relating to goods or services sold on premises, provided
that the total of all signs in the window area does not exceed twenty (20)
percent of the window area.
   (R)   Banner signs hung on any light posts owned by the City, a governmental
entity or public utility which publicize the City or a City event and advertise
solely the name of the sponsoring entity. Approval of the City Council and all
other required entities must be obtained prior to installation of any banner
sign as provided herein. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997; Ord.
2698, 6-16-2008)
6-6-17: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS: 
Every applicant for a permit referred to herein shall, before the permit is
granted, file with the Building Official, a continuing bond in the penal sum of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), executed by the applicant and a surety
company to be approved by the Building Official and conditioned for the
faithful observance of the provisions of this Chapter and all amendments
thereto, and of all laws and ordinances relating to signs and other advertising
structures, and which shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and
all damages, judgments, costs or expense which the said City may incur or
suffer by reason of the granting of said permit, or shall maintain sign
insurance and shall file with the City the satisfactory certificate of
insurance to indemnify the City against any form of liability and said policy
shall have limits in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars/three hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00/$300,000.00) public liability and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) property damage, or a three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) combined single limit policy. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord.
1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-18: SIGN INSURANCE REQUIRED:
All persons involved in the maintenance, installation, alteration, or
relocation of signs shall maintain all required sign insurance and shall file
with the City the satisfactory certificate of insurance to indemnify the City
against any form of liability and said policy shall have limits in the amount
of one hundred thousand/three hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00/
$300,000.00) public liability and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property
damage, or a three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) combined single limit
policy. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-19: SIGN CONTRACTOR'S REGISTRATION FEE:
No person shall perform any work or service for any person or for any
government entity for compensation, in or in connection with the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration or repair, moving, improvement,
maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign in the City, or cause any
such work to be done unless such person or firm is a registered sign contractor
with the City. The City shall honor the registration certificate issued by the
City of Rock Falls, Illinois, or the City of Sterling, Illinois, provided that
prior to the issuance of registration the applicant shall provide to the City
the documents required by Sections 6-6-17 and 6-6-18 of this Chapter. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-20: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES:   
No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress
and egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind shall be
attached to a standpipe or fire escape. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974,
1-6-1997)
6-6-21: SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARD: 
No sign or other advertising structure as regulated by this Chapter shall be
erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free
and clear vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or
color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the words
"Stop", "Look", "Drive-in", "Danger" or any other word, phase, symbol or
character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-22: PROHIBITED SIGNS: 
All signs not expressly permitted under this Chapter or exempt from regulation
under Section
6-6-16, are prohibited in the City of Dixon. Such prohibited signs include, but
are not limited to:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, post or maintain any
sign within the public right-of-way or on public property, except as otherwise
allowed in this Chapter 6.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any sign which extends
over public property, and which is wholly or partially illuminated by
floodlight or spotlight.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display upon any sign or other
advertising structure any obscene, indecent, pornographic or immoral matter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or maintain any sign to
a tree or utility pole, whether on public or private property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any portable
signs.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a roof sign.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a billboard
in the Central Business District or in any other zoning district not
specifically permitted by this Chapter.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a flashing
sign.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain an off-
premises sign, except billboard signs as permitted in this Chapter.
   (J)   No person shall, for the flagrant purpose of providing advertisement
of products or directing people to a business or activity, park any vehicle or
trailer on the public right-of-way, public property, or private property so as
to be prominently visible from a public right-of-way, which has attached
thereto or located thereon any sign or advertising device, for a period of more
than seven consecutive days.
   (K)   Animated signs, not including electronic message signs. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-23: SIGNS IN AREAS ZONED RESIDENTIAL: 
The following restrictions shall apply to signs placed on real estate zoned
residential.
   (A)   General Standards:
      1.   Each sign shall be set back from the street line a distance of at
least one-half (1/2) of the required minimum setback specified in the zoning
regulations.
      2.   For each dwelling unit there shall be allowed one nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area indicating the name and/or address of the
occupant, and, where applicable, a professional status, but not to indicate the
product or business.
   (B)   For Sale Signs:
      1.   No more than one For Sale sign shall be allowed on a single property
or lot except on a corner lot where two (2) such signs shall be allowed.
      2.   For Sale signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area, may not
be illuminated and must be for sale of the residence or building on the
premises on which such sign is erected or maintained. Removal of said sign must
be done immediately upon the sale of the property.
      3.   When six (6) or more dwelling units are contained on one parcel and
are offered for sale by the same party there shall be permitted one sign facing
each public street providing access to the property being offered. The For Sale
sign shall not be illuminated and must be for the sale of premises or building
on which such sign is erected or maintained.
   (C)   Non-illuminated ground signs not exceeding twelve (12) square feet
located on property which has been granted a Special Use under Chapter 13 of
this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-24: SIGNS IN AREAS ZONED BUSINESS OR MANUFACTURING: 
The following restrictions shall apply to signs placed on a parcel zoned
business or manufacturing:
   (A)   General Standards:
      1.   Sign Setback: Each sign shall be set back from the street line a
distance of at least one-half (1/2) the required minimum setback specified in
the zoning regulations.
      2.   Sign Area: The total square footage of any permissible sign allowed
on said zoning lot shall be determined by the sign area table below.
      3.   Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle,
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
framing an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets the regulations of this
Chapter, and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
      4.   Computation Of Area Of Multifaced Signs: The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all of
the sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are
placed back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the
same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are
not more than forty two inches (42”) apart, the sign area shall be computed by
the measurement of one of the faces.
      5.   Sign Area Table: The following table shall be used to determine the
total surface area of all signs oriented to any street in any business,
commercial or industrial area (shopping centers for the purpose of this Chapter
are defined as a separate area). The total surface area of all signs oriented
to any street shall not exceed fifteen (15) times the square root of street
frontage on that street, and the combined area of all signs shall not exceed
fifteen (15) times the square root of the combined street frontage.
Street Frontage Allowable Area
Street Frontage Allowable Area
(in feet)       (in sq. ft.)
20              67
25              75
30              82
35              89
40              95
50              106
60              116
70              126
80              134
90              143
100             150
125             168
150             185
175             198
200             212
250             237
300             260
400             300
 
      6.   Signs which are of metal construction and are illuminated by
internal wiring or electrically wired accessory fixtures shall maintain a
clearance of ten feet (10'). Accessory lighting fixtures attached to a nonmetal
frame shall maintain a clearance of not less than ten feet (10') above the
sidewalk or ground. If a metal sign or accessory fixture is grounded by use of
a grounding conductor and said structure or fixture is also grounded by being
bonded to a grounding electrode at the sign's site, the above clearance
requirements shall not be applicable.
      7.   Front, side and rear wall signs may be of a gaseous tube type or may
be illuminated by interior means of lighting or by indirect lighting designed
to flood only the area of the sign with light and to prevent light from being
reflected to surrounding properties.
      8.   Projecting signs shall be at least eight feet (8') above the public
sidewalk over which it is erected and a distance not greater than eighteen
inches (18") from the face of the wall to which it is attached measuring from
the point of the sign furthest from the face of the wall; nor shall any sign or
any part thereof extend nearer the curb line than two feet (2'). Every
projecting sign erected over public driveways or alleys with thoroughfares
shall be placed not less than fifteen feet (15') above the level of the same.
      9.   All awnings hereafter erected over any sidewalk shall be elevated so
that the lowest part shall be at least eight feet (8') above the top of the
sidewalk and shall not extend to exceed three-fourths (3/4) of the width
thereof; such awning shall be supported without posts by brackets or by
framework attached firmly to the building so as to leave the sidewalk wholly
unobstructed.
      10.   Canopies and other similar structures hereafter erected over any
sidewalks shall be elevated so that the lowest part shall be at least ten feet
(10') above the top of the sidewalk and shall not project over the sidewalk in
excess of three feet (3'). (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-25: FOR SALE SIGNS IN AREAS ZONED BUSINESS OR MANUFACTURING:
   (A)   No more than one For Sale sign shall be permissible for each street
frontage.
   (B)   For Sale signs must be for the sale of the premises or building on
which such sign is erected or maintained and shall be removed immediately upon
the sale of said property.
   (C)   In areas zoned as business or manufacturing districts the maximum sign
shall be thirty-two (32) square feet. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-
6-1997)
6-6-26: WALL SIGNS:
Wall signs as regulated by this Chapter shall include all flat signs of solid
base construction which are placed against a building or other structure or
attached to the exterior, front, rear, or side wall of any building or
structure.
   (A)   Front Wall Signs: The following regulations pertain to front wall
signs:
      1.   Where a single principle building is being used by two (2) or more
businesses, there may be only one front wall sign on the building.
      2.   No front wall signs in the Central Business District shall be
permitted to extend more than eighteen inches (18") beyond the building line,
and shall be attached to a wall at a height of not less than eight feet (8')
above the sidewalk or ground. The lettering or sign face shall run parallel to
the face of the building.
      3.   Front wall signs in areas other than the Central Business District
shall not be permitted to extend more than seventy two inches (72") beyond the
building line, and shall not project over a public sidewalk or right-of-way
more than eighteen inches (18") from the wall to which it is attached.
   (B)   Side Wall Signs:
      1.   Signs may be placed on the side of a building or structure but said
signs shall be of a square footage no greater than twenty five percent (25%) of
the allowable permitted area for a front wall sign on the same building. When
the principal entrance for a separate business is located at the side of a
building that fronts a street, the business is allowed their own sign area in
conformance to the Sign Area Table in Section
6-6-24 A.3.
      2.   The lettering on the sidewall sign shall run parallel to the side of
the building and said sidewall sign shall extend no more than eighteen inches
(18") from the sidewall to which it is attached measuring from the point of the
sign furthest from the face of the wall.
   (C)   Rear Wall Signs:
      1.   Rear wall signs shall be of a square footage no greater than twenty
five percent (25%) of the allowable permitted area for a front wall sign on the
same building. When the principal entrance for a separate business is located
at the rear of a building that fronts a street, the business is allowed their
own sign area in conformance to the Sign Area Table in Section
6-6-24 A.3.
      2.   The lettering on said rear wall sign shall run parallel to the rear
wall of the building and said rear wall sign shall extend no more than eighteen
inches (18") from the rear wall to which it is attached measuring from the
point of the sign furthest from the face of the wall. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997;
amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-27: FREE STANDING SIGNS:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to erect any free standing sign which total
height is greater than twenty five feet (25') above the level of the street
upon which the sign faces, or above the adjoining ground level where such
ground level is above the street level, except as provided in Section
6-6-29 (Signs Accessory to Shopping Centers).
      2.   No metal free standing sign shall be located within eight feet (8')
vertically and four feet (4') horizontally of electric wires or conductors
carrying more than forty eight (48) volts, notwithstanding whether such wires
or conductors are insulated or otherwise protected.
      3.   A maximum of four (4) freestanding signs shall be permitted on any
one zoning lot. The total square footage of all free standing signs on one lot
shall be combined when determining the maximum amount of signage area for said
lot.
      4.   No free standing sign shall be nearer than three feet (3') from the
property line as measured from the edge of the sign closest to the property
line.
   (B)   Erection:
      1.   All free standing signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected upon posts and standard sunk at least forty two inches (42") below the
natural surface of the ground and shall be supported and braced by timbers or
metal rods in the rear thereof, extending from the top thereof to a point in
the ground at least a distance equal to one-half (1/2) the height of such sign,
measured along the ground, from the post or standards upon which the same is
erected. The requirement of a back base for a freestanding sign may be waived
by the Building Official.
      2.   All ground signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be
maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition, and free and clear of all noxious substance, rubbish, weeds and
grass longer than eight inches (8"). (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-
1997)
6-6-28: BILLBOARDS:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   Billboards may be erected only in areas zoned B-2, LM, GM where
those areas are adjacent and contiguous to State highway routes.
      2.   Billboards may be erected on premises not pertaining to the
business, industry or pursuit on which the sign is erected or maintained,
provided a written lease executed by the applicant and the owner of said
premises is submitted at the time application is made.
   (B)   Construction:
      1.   The Sign Area Table of this Chapter shall apply to the maximum
square footage allowed per zoning lot.
      2.   Reflectors shall be provided with the proper glass lenses
concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign and preventing glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
   (C)   Size:
      1.   Billboards may be double faced, with only one surface applying to
the square footage allowable on said property.
      2.   No billboard shall be nearer the street than one-half (1/2) of the
required setback lines as specified in the applicable zoning ordinances or
nearer than twenty-five feet (25') from any building.
      3.   No two (2) billboards may be closer than three hundred feet (300')
unless separated by a permanent structure or roadway. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997;
amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-29: SIGNS ACCESSORY TO SHOPPING CENTERS:
   (A)   One shopping center identification sign not exceeding four hundred
(400) square feet may be erected, advertising only the name, location and
special events of the shopping center, and the names of the tenants therein.
Such sign shall be placed so as to be located entirely within the property
lines of the premises upon which it is located. The overall height of the sign
shall not exceed fifty feet (50') above grade of the adjacent street or above
the street level if the adjoining ground level is above the street level. The
bottom edge of said sign shall be at least ten feet (10') above grade.
   (B)   Signs for individual tenants or occupants of a shopping center shall
follow the regulations set forth in Section
6-6-25 (For Sale Signs in Areas Zoned Business or Manufacturing) of this
Chapter. Any occupant or tenant that occupies space on an exterior wall visible
to the public may have a front, side or rear wall sign, but individual tenants
and occupants may not have freestanding signs.
   (C)   Other persons or businesses, not tenants or occupants of the shopping
centers, who do not have road frontage for a sign on their own property and
whose only means of access is through a shopping center, may have one sign not
to exceed one hundred eighty five (185) square feet. The sign must be attached
to or, if freestanding, appearing to be attached to the shopping center
identification sign and located so as not to interfere with the vision of the
existing shopping center identification sign.
   (D)   If there is no shopping center identification sign on said premises,
the applicant may erect a sign in compliance with Section
6-6-27 (Free Standing Signs); provided that paragraph 6-6-27(A)3 shall not
apply and such sign shall be located at the entrance to the shopping center
closest to the applicant's access.
      1.   A written authorization signed by the owner of said shopping center
granting permission to erect such sign shall be submitted at the time of the
application. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-30: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   (A)   Permits for temporary signs shall authorize the erection of said signs
and their maintenance for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days in a 12 month
period.
   (B)   The advertisement contained on any temporary sign shall pertain only
to the business, industry or pursuit conducted on or within the premises on
which such sign is erected or maintained. This provision shall not apply to
signs of civic, political or religious nature.
   (C)   No temporary sign shall extend over or into any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public thoroughfare.
   (D)   The following signs shall be erected on a temporary basis only in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and all other regulations of
this Chapter:
      1.   Beacons, including any rotating or multibeam lights and strobes.
      2.   Pennants.
      3.   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd.
Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-31: NONCONFORMING EXISTING SIGNS:
   (A)   Existing signs or other advertising structure lawfully in existence on
the effective date of this Title, and which do not conform to the specific
provisions of this Chapter shall be designated as "legal nonconforming" signs.
A legal nonconforming sign shall not be altered or moved unless it is made to
comply with the provisions of this Chapter 6 and Chapter 4.
   (B)   A legal nonconforming sign shall lose its nonconforming status if the
sign is relocated or replaced or the structure or size of the sign is altered
in any way except toward compliance with this Chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section shall not exempt the owner of any
nonconforming signs from the requirements of Section
6-6-18 (Sign Insurance Required) pertaining to liability insurance.
   (D)   A legal nonconforming sign is subject to all requirements of this
Chapter regarding safety, maintenance and repair. If the sign suffers more than
fifty percent (50%) appraised damage or deterioration, it must be brought into
conformance with this Chapter or removed. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974,
1-6-1997)
6-6-32: REVOCATION:
In any case where a variation has been granted, and where no work pertinent
thereto has been initiated within one (1) year from the date of approval of the
requested variation, then without further action by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, said variation shall become null and void. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd.
Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-33: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is committed,
or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1974, 1-6-1997)
6-6-34: CANNABIS:
In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, no cannabis business
establishment nor any other person or entity may place or maintain, or cause to
be placed or maintain, any sign or billboard advertising or promoting cannabis:
   (A)   Within one thousand feet (1,000) of the perimeter of school grounds, a
playground, a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park
or public library, or a game arcade to which admission is not restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older;
   (B)   On or in publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
   (C)   That contains information that:
      1.   Is false or misleading;
      2.   Promotes excessive consumption of cannabis;
      3.   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis;
      4.   Makes any health, medicinal or therapeutic claims about cannabis;
      5.   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
      6.   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors, including
cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to images,
characters, or phrases that are popularly used to advertise to children, or any
imitation of candy packaging or labeling, or any other likeness to images,
characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing to or
encourage consumption of cannabis of persons under twenty one (21) years of
age. (Ord. 3178, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 7
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Procedure
6-7-3: Extent Of Control
6-7-4: Existing Parking And Loading Spaces
6-7-5: Permissive Parking And Loading Spaces
6-7-6: Damage, Destruction, Remodeling Or Rebuilding
6-7-7: Schedule Of Requirements
6-7-8: Residential Parking Facilities
6-7-9: Joint And Shared Parking Facilities
6-7-10: Control Of Off-Site Facilities
6-7-11:    Permitted Districts For Accessory Parking
6-7-12:    Nonresidential Parking In Residential Districts
6-7-13:    Design And Maintenance
6-7-14:    "Special Use" Public Parking Areas
6-7-15:    Location Of Parking Areas
6-7-16: Schedule Of Parking Spaces And Off-Street Loading Facilities
6-7-17:    Additional Regulations; Loading
6-7-18:    Americans With Disabilities Act Requirements
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter of the Zoning Title is to alleviate or prevent
congestion of the public streets, and to promote the safety and welfare of the
public by establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and
loading and unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which
property is put.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-2: PROCEDURE:
An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure,
or use, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale, and fully
dimensioned showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-3: EXTENT OF CONTROL:
The off-street parking and loading requirements of this Title shall apply as
follows:
   (A)   All buildings and structures erected and land uses initiated after the
effective date of this Title shall provide accessory off-street parking or
loading facilities as required hereinafter for the use thereof, except that a
building or structure for which a building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date of this Title shall not be required to furnish parking or
loading facilities if construction is begun thereon within six (6) months of
the effective date of this Title and diligently prosecuted to completion.
   (B)   When a building or structure erected prior to or after the effective
date of this Title shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling units, gross
floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, or other unit of measurement
specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities, and further
when the decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total parking or
loading spaces through application of the provisions of this Title thereto,
parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided, that
existing parking or loading facilities shall be so decreased only when the
facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading
requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this Title to the
entire building or structure as modified. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-4: EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Accessory off-street parking and loading spaces in existence on the effective
date of this Title may not be reduced in number unless already exceeding the
requirements of this Chapter for equivalent new construction, in which event
the spaces shall not be reduced below the number required herein for such
equivalent new construction. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-5: PERMISSIVE PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the establishment of off-street
automobile parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or
buildings, subject to full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter,
except that off-street parking areas accessory to existing multiple-family
structures cannot be located off the premises containing the main use, unless
on a lot adjacent thereto, without authorization by the City Council. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)&
6-7-6: DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION, REMODELING OR REBUILDING:
Any building, structure, or use which is in existence and is a conforming use
on the effective date of this Title and which subsequently shall be damaged or
destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause or which shall be razed
and remodeled or rebuilt, may be constructed, reconstructed, rebuilt,
reestablished or repaired with or without off-street parking or loading
facilities, except that parking or loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage, destruction or razing shall be restored
or continued in operation, provided that the number of dwelling units, number
of employees, or number of loading spaces remains the same. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997)
6-7-7: SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS: 
   (A)   Tables For Required Parking And Loading: Requirements governing the
number and location of off-street parking and off-street loading facilities in
relation to the use of property are established within this chapter. The
parking and loading requirements for any use not specified therein shall be the
same as for a similar specific use.
   (B)   Reduction Of Required Parking Spaces: The City Council may, by
variance, reduce the total number of off-street parking spaces required for
business and professional uses.
   (C)   Captive Market: Parking requirements for retail and restaurant uses
may be reduced permanently where it can be determined that some portion of the
patronage of these businesses comes from other uses (i.e., employees of area
offices patronizing restaurants) located within a maximum walking distance of
one thousand feet (1,000').
      1.   Central Business District. In lieu of an independent parking study,
the following factors for captive market adjustments may be employed for uses
in the Central Business District.
         Retail/Service      - 15% Reduction
         Food and Beverage      - 15% Reduction
         General Offices      - 5% Reduction
         Financial Institutions   - 5% Reduction
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975, 1-6-1997)
6-7-8: RESIDENTIAL PARKING FACILITIES:
Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential use and developed in any
residential district in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter shall
be used solely for the parking of passenger automobiles owned by occupants of
the dwelling structures to which such facilities are accessory or by guests of
the occupants. Under no circumstances shall required parking facilities
accessory to residential structures be used for the storage of commercial
vehicles, or for the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees, owners,
tenants, visitors, or customers of business or manufacturing establishments,
except as permitted in Section
6-7-12.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-9: JOINT AND SHARED PARKING FACILITIES:
Joint Parking: Off-street parking facilities for different buildings,
structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any
zoning district in which separate parking facilities for each constituent use
would be permitted; provided, that the total number of spaces so located
together shall not be less than the sum of the separate requirements for each
use if the peak requirements of the uses in question overlap.
Shared Parking. Cumulative parking requirements for mixed-use occupancies may
be reduced where it can be determined that the peak requirement of the several
occupancies occurs at different times (either daily or seasonally). The Shared
Parking report published by the Urban Land Institute may be used as a guideline
in the estimation of parking demand. The process for approval and the use of
land gained through Shared Parking shall conform to the land banking process in
Section
6-7-7-B. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-10: CONTROL OF OFF-SITE FACILITIES:
When required accessory off-street parking facilities are provided elsewhere
than on the lot on which the principal use served is located, they shall be in
the same possession, either by deed or long-term lease, as the property
occupied by the principal use, and the owner shall be bound by covenants filed
on record in the office of the Recorder of Deeds or the Registrar of Titles of
Lee County, requiring the owner and his heirs and assigns to maintain the
required number of parking spaces during the existence of the principal use.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-11: PERMITTED DISTRICTS FOR ACCESSORY PARKING:
   (A)   Accessory parking facilities provided elsewhere than on the same
zoning lot with the principal use served may be located in any zoning district
except as follows:
      1.   No parking facility accessory to an apartment shall be located in an
R-1 District.
      2.   No parking facility accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the City
Council as hereinafter prescribed.
      3.   No parking facility accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
permitted in a B-1 or B-2 District.
   (B)   No accessory parking facility in a B-1 or B-2 District may be used to
store impounded motor vehicles.
   (C)   All motor vehicles parked on an accessory parking facility must be
licensed and registered.
   (D)   No inoperable motor vehicle may be kept at an accessory parking
facility in a B-1 or B-2 District. As used in this Section, "inoperable motor
vehicle" shall have the same definition as set forth in Section
4-7-1 (N) of the City Code.
   (E)   An accessory parking facility in a B-1 or B-2 District may only be
used to park motor vehicles on a temporary basis not to exceed five (5)
consecutive days. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2654, 09-10-2007)   
6-7-12: NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Accessory off-street parking facilities serving nonresidential uses of property
may be permitted in an R-3 District when authorized by the City Council,
subject to the following requirements in addition to all other relevant
requirements of this Section.
   (A)   The parking lot shall be accessory to, and for use in connection with,
one (1) or more nonresidential establishments located in adjoining districts,
or in connection with one (1) or more existing professional or institutional
office buildings or institutions.
   (B)   The parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles.
   (C)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted on
the parking lot.
   (D)   No sign of any kind other than signs designating entrances, exits, and
conditions of use, shall be maintained on the parking lot.
   (E)   The parking lot may be open from 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M. and shall be
closed at all other times; provided, however, that when supervised by one (1)
or more full-time attendants, the parking lot may be kept open until 12:00
midnight.
   (F)   Each entrance to and exit from the parking lot shall be at least
twenty feet (20') distant from any adjacent property located in any residential
district, except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a
public alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed
parking lot.
   (G)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall
conform to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed by the
City Council for the protection of properties adjacent to and in the vicinity
of the proposed parking lot. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-13: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Parking Space; Description: A required off-street parking space shall
be not less than eight and a half feet (8 1/2') wide by nineteen feet (19')
long, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work
areas, accessible from streets or alleys or from private driveways or aisles
leading to streets or alleys and to be used for the storage or parking of
passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles under one and one-half (1 1/2) ton
capacity. The nineteen foot (19') length may include up to two feet (2') of
abutting space in a vegetative buffer or landscaped area over which a parked
vehicle may extend, provided that no parked vehicle may project over a sidewalk
or other pedestrian walkway. Aisles between vehicular parking spaces shall be
at least the width designated in Figure 7.1, based on the angle of the parking
stalls provided and whether the aisle serves one or two (2) rows of parking
spaces.
   (B)   Measurement of Space: When determination of the number of required
off-street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one (1) parking space.
   (C)   Access: Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least interfere
with the movement of traffic. No driveway or curb cut in any district shall
exceed twenty-five feet (25') in width.
   (D)   Signs: No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district, except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
   (E)   Required Setbacks: No parking space nor portion thereof established on
the same zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front
yard. No parking spaces nor portion thereof established on a zoning lot without
a building shall be located closer to any street line than the established
building line on adjacent properties nor closer than the front yard setback
required for the district in which the parking lot is located.
   (F)   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas and driveways shall be
improved with a compacted base, not less than six inches (6") thick, surfaced
with asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-weather dustless material. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2482, 5-18-2004)
6-7-14: "SPECIAL USE" PUBLIC PARKING AREAS:
Any automobile parking area developed for transient trade, and not accessory to
specific main uses or groups of uses for which parking is required by this
Title, shall be treated as a "Special Use", as defined in Chapter 2 and as
allowed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 13 by the City Council.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-15: LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS:
Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be located as hereinafter
specified; where a distance is specified, such distance shall be walking
distance measured from the nearest point of the parking area to the nearest
entrance of the building that the parking area is required to serve:
   (A)   For one (1) and two-family (2) dwellings, on the same lot with the
building they are required to serve.
   (B)   For three (3) and four-family (4) dwellings not over two (2) stories
in height, on the same lot or parcel of land as the building they are required
to serve. For the purpose of this requirement, a group of such uses constructed
and maintained under single ownership or management shall be assumed to be on a
single lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   For apartment houses containing four (4) or more dwelling units, on
the same lot or parcel of land as the building they are required to serve, or
on a separate lot or parcel of land contiguous to the zoning lot upon which is
located the building they are intended to serve; provided, the lot or parcel of
land selected for the parking facilities is located in an apartment district or
a less restricted district.
   (D)   For rooming houses, lodging houses, clubs, hospitals, sanitariums,
orphanages, homes for the aged, convalescent homes, dormitories, sorority and
fraternity houses, and for other similar uses, the off-street parking
facilities required shall be on the same lot or parcel of land as the main
building being served, or upon properties contiguous to the zoning lot upon
which is located the building they are intended to serve.
   (E)   For uses other than those specified herein, off-street parking
facilities shall be provided on the same lot or parcel of land as the main
building being served, or on a separate lot or parcel of land not over one
thousand feet (1000') from the entrance of the main building, measured from the
nearest point of the parking area; provided, the separate lot or parcel of land
intended for the parking facilities is located in the same district as the
principal permitted use or in a less restricted district. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-16: SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACES AND OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
USE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED LOADING SPACES REQUIRED
USE                       PARKING SPACES REQUIRED    LOADING SPACES REQUIRED
Residential                                          
Single Family Dwelling    2 per Dwelling Unit        None
Unit
Multi-Family Dwelling                                
Unit
   Studio              1.25 per Dwelling Unit     None required for the
   1 Bedroom           1.5 per Dwelling Unit      first 25 units; thereafter
                                                     1 space for every 100
   2 Bedrooms or more  2 per Dwelling Unit        units per building

                          0.5 per Dwelling Unit
Elderly Housing           plus 1 space for each      None
                          employee at peak shift
Accessory Dwelling Unit   1 per Dwelling Unit        None
                          1 per sleeping room or
                          unit, plus 1 space for
                          each employee at peak      As required for
Commercial Lodgings       hours plus any spaces      restaurant/lounge
                          required for restaurant/
                          lounge, banquet areas &
                          meeting rooms
Group, Congregate, &      1 per 6 patient beds, plus
Nursing Homes             1 for each employee at     One
                          peak shift
                          One space per employee,
Child Daycare Center      plus 0 .1 space per person None
                          of licensed capacity
                          1 space per 3 beds, plus 0
                          .4 spaces per employee     1 per 100,000 sq. ft.
                          plus 1 space per 5 average GFA up to 500,000
Hospital                  daily out-                 sq. ft., plus 1 per
                          patient visits plus 1      200,000 sq. ft. thereafter
                          space per 10 emergency
                          room treatments
Retail/Service                                       
                                                     None for the first 10,000
                          3.3 per 1,000 sq. ft. of   sq. ft., then 1 per 30,000
General Retail            GFA                        sq. ft. up to 70,000 sq.
                                                     ft. plus 1 per 80,000 sq.
                                                     ft. thereafter
Convenience Store         4 per 1,000 sq. ft. of GFA Same as general retail
Service Retail            2.5 per 1,000 sw ft of GFA Same as general retail
                          2.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. of
                          GFA interior sales space,
Hard Good Retail          plus 1.5 per 1,000 ft of   Same as general retail
                          interior storage and/or
                          exterior display/storage
                          4 per 1,000 sq. ft. of GLA
                          for centers with up to     1 per 50,000 sq. ft. GLA
                          400,000 sq. ft., 4.5 per   up to 100,000 plus 1 per
Shopping Centers          1,000 sq. ft. of GLA for   100,000 sq. ft. up to
                          centers 400,000 to 600,000 500,000 sq. ft. plus 1 per
                          sq. ft., 5 per 1,000 sq.   200,000 sq. ft. thereafter
                          ft. of GLA for centers
                          with over 600,000 sq. ft.
                          2 per treatment station,
Personal Care Services    but not less than 4 per    None
                          1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Coin Operated Laundries   1 space per 2 machines     None
Other Retail/Service Uses As determined by the       Same as general retail
                          Building Official
Temporary Retail          3.3 per 1,000 sq. ft. of   None
                          GFA
                          4 spaces per lane, plus
Bowling Alleys            additional spaces for      Same as general retail
                          restaurant, lounge, as
                          required
                          2.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. of
                          GFA interior sales space,
Motor Vehicle Sales and   plus 1.5 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Service                   of external display (does  Same as industrial
                          not include stock areas
                          closed to the public) plus
                          3 per service bay
Mortuary or Funeral       7 spaces for each room
Parlor                    used as a chapel, plus one One
                          for each funeral vehicle
Food and Beverage                                    
Sit-down Restaurant/      1 per 60 sq. ft. GFA       1 per 40,000 sq. ft.
Lounge or Bar
Fast Food or Carry-out    1 per 3 seats, plus 3 per  With indoor seating area,
Restaurant                cashier station            one: with no seating area,
                                                     none
Office and Business                                  
Services
                          4 per 1,000 sq. ft. of GFA
                          for GFA up to 30,000 sq.   None for the first 30,000
General Offices           ft.; 3.3 per 1,000 sq. ft. sq. ft. then 1 per 100,000
                          GFA for buildings with GFA sq. ft. thereafter
                          over 30,000 sq. ft.
                                                     Non for the first 10,000
                                                     sq. ft. GFA then one per
Financial Institutions    4 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA    500,000 sq. ft. up to
                                                     110,000 sq. ft. plus 1 per
                                                     100,000 sq. ft. thereafter
Medical Offices           3 per doctor employed,     Same as general offices
                          plus one per employee
                          One space in addition to
Home Occupation Offices   the space(s) required for  None
                          the dwelling
                          .65 spaces per employee
                          based on the greatest      1 space per 25,000 sq. ft.
                          number of employees        up to 50,000 sq. ft., plus
Industrial                present during a work      1 space for the next
                          shift, plus one space per  50,000 sq. ft., plus 1
                          each 500 sq. ft. of floor  space per 100,000 sq. ft.
                          area open to the public    thereafter
                          for customer parking
                          .65 spaces per employee
                          based on the greatest
                          number of employees        1 space for the first
Storage/Wholesale/Utility present during a work      50,000 sq. ft. GFA, plus 1
                          shift, plus one space per  space per 100,000 sq. ft.
                          each 500 sq. ft. of floor  thereafter
                          area open to the public
                          for customer parking
Mini Warehouse            3 spaces at the office     None
Governmental              As determined by the Building Official
                          1 space per classroom and
                          other rooms used by        1 space per 100,000 sq.
Educational               students, plus .2 spaces   ft. GFA
                          per student over the
                          driving age
Cultural/Recreational/                               
Entertainment
Public Assembly           .25 spaces per person in   1 space per 100,000 sq.
                          permitted capacity         ft. GFA
Public Recreation         .33 spaces per person in   1 space per 100,000 sq.
                          permitted capacity         ft. GFA
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS; LOADING:
   (A)   Loading Berth; Description: An off-street loading berth shall be a
hard surfaced area of land, open or enclosed, other than a street or a public
way, used principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor trucks,
tractors and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the public use of
streets and alleys. A required loading space shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width, sixty feet (60') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height,
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space, except as otherwise
specifically dimensioned hereafter.
   (B)   Location: No permitted or required loading berth shall be closer than
fifty feet (50') to any property in a residential district unless completely
enclosed by building walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence or wall, or any
combination thereof not less than six feet (6') in height. No permitted or
required loading berth shall be located within twenty-five feet (25') of the
nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. Loading berths open to
the sky may be located in any required yards.
   (C)   Measurement of Berth: When determination of the number of required
off-street loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one (1) loading berth.
   (D)   Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted crushed stone base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced
with not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable
all-weather dustless material. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-7-18: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   In any self park facility, a certain number of spaces must be set
aside for wheel chair access as summarized in the following table:
Total Spaces Minimum Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces Minimum Accessible Spaces
1 to 25      1
26 to 50     2
51 to 75     3
76 to 100    4
101 to 150   5
151 to 200   6
201 to 300   7
301 to 400   8
401 to 500   9
501 to 1000  2% of total
1001 & over  20 plus 1 per 100 over 1,000 spaces
 
   Exceptions:
      1.   Outpatient units at medical care facilities - 10% of total spaces
for that facility.
      2.   Medical Care Facilities specifically for treatment of the mobility
impaired - 20% of the total spaces for that unit.
   (B)   Accessible Parking Space Dimensions:
      1.   Standard Accessible Spaces - Accessible spaces shall consist of a
sixteen foot (16') wide parking stall adjacent to a eight foot (8') wide access
aisle.
      2.   Vertical Clearance - Along at least one aisle to and from each
accessible space, a minimum clearance of eight feet- two inches (98 inches) is
required.
   (C)   Location Of Accessible Spaces:
      1.   Accessible parking spaces serving a particular building shall be
located on the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible entrance.
      2.   Accessible parking spaces need not be provided in each parking
structure provided the different location has equivalent or greater
accessibility in terms of distance from an accessible entrance.
      3.   Accessible parking spaces may be provided on one level of a multi-
level parking structure.
   (D)   Accessible Route:
      1.   At least one accessible route with a continuous minimum clearance of
thirty-six inches (36") must be provided from accessible parking spaces to the
nearest accessible pedestrian entrance.
      2.   If an accessible route has less than sixty inches (60") clear width
then passing spaces at least sixty inches (60") by sixty inches (60") must be
located at reasonable intervals not to exceed every two hundred feet (200').
      3.   The floor slope along an accessible route shall not exceed 1:12 with
a maximum rise of thirty inches (30") for any run.
      4.   A level landing shall be provided at the bottom of each ramp and top
of each ramp run. The width of the landing shall be at least as wide as the
ramp run and at least sixty inches (60") long. At changes in direction a sixty-
inch (60") by sixty inch (60") landing shall be provided.
      5.   The cross slope of ramps shall not exceed 1:50.
      6.   The floor slope at loading zones shall not exceed 1:50.
      7.   It is preferable to provide the accessible route at the front of the
stalls. Also, the accessible route shall avoid crossing lanes of vehicular
travel. When crossing vehicular travel lanes is necessary, the route of travel
shall be designated and marked by a crosswalk. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 8
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAPS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Use Districts
6-8-2: Zoning Maps
6-8-3: New or Annexed Land
6-8-4: Zoning of Public Ways And Railroad Rights Of Way
6-8-5: Boundary Lines
6-8-1: USE DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Title, the City is
hereby divided into the following districts:
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ER      Estate Residential Districts
CR      Country Side Residential District
R-1      Single-Family Residential District
R-2      Two-Family Residential District
R-3      Moderate Density Multiple-Family District
R-4      High Density Multiple-Family District
   BUSINESS DISTRICTS
B-1      Limited Neighborhood Business Office District
B-2      General Business District
CBD      Central Business District
BH-X      Interchange Planned Unit Development District
   MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
LM      Limited Manufacturing/Business Park District
GM      General Manufacturing District (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-8-2: ZONING MAPS:
The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown upon
the Zoning Map which is hereby incorporated into this Title. The Zoning Map,
together with all notations, references and other information shown thereon,
and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this Title and shall have the
same force and effect as if the Zoning Map, together with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon, were fully set forth and
described herein. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-8-3: NEW OR ANNEXED LAND:
Submerged land which may be reclaimed and land which may be annexed to the City
shall automatically be zoned to the most restricted adjoining district until
otherwise changed by the Council in accordance with the provisions of this
Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-8-4: ZONING OF PUBLIC WAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
All streets, alleys, public ways, and railroad rights-of-way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property
immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and railroad
rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or railroad
right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of
the abutting property up to such centerline. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-8-5: BOUNDARY LINES:
Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any use district as shown
on the Zoning Maps incorporated herein, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
alleys or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof.
   (B)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where a lot held in one (1) ownership and of record at the effective
date of this Title is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall
be construed to be within the less restricted district; provided, that this
construction shall not apply if it increases the area of the less restricted
portion of the lot by more than twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose
6-9-2: Residential Development Standards Of General Applicability
6-9-3: ER Estate Residential District
6-9-4: CR Countryside Residential District
6-9-5: R-1 Single-Family Residential District
6-9-6: R-2 Two-Family Residential District
6-9-7: R-3 Moderate Density Multiple-Family District
6-9-8: R-4 High Density Multiple-Family District
6-9-1: PURPOSE: 
The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health, and promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity and welfare. These general goals include, among others, the
following specific purposes:
   (A)   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious fumes,
offensive noise, smoke, vibrations, dust, odors, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors.
   (B)   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate in
each area against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic, especially through-
traffic and to alleviate congestion by promoting off-street parking.
   (C)   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public
streets and other public facilities by controlling the density of population
through regulation of the bulk of buildings.
   (D)   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing for
ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof.
   (E)   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same zoning lot with residential development.
   (F)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the
probable need for future residential expansion and to meet the need for
necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences, which increase
safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert objectionable
influences.
   (G)   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a comprehensive land use plan, to promote stability of
residential neighborhoods, and to protect the value of land and improvements
and so strengthen the economic base of the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-9-2: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Minimum Bulk Regulations: No structure or lot shall be developed,
used, or occupied unless it meets the minimum lot area, lot width, and yard
requirements and height limits set forth in this Chapter for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Impervious Surface Coverage Limitations:
      1.   In no event shall more than thirty percent (30%) of the required
front yard be covered by impervious surfaces.
      2.   In no event shall more than forty percent (40%) of the required side
yards combined be covered by impervious surfaces.
      3.   In no event shall more than fifty percent (50%) of the required rear
yard combined be covered by impervious surfaces.
   (C)   No temporary carport shall be permitted within any District as defined
in this Chapter.
   (D)   Any single family or duplex structure constructed after the effective
date of this Chapter must contain an enclosed one-car private garage per
dwelling unit, attached or detached from the main structure, having minimum
dimensions of twelve feet (12') by twenty-two feet (22').
   (E)   No motor vehicle, trailer, camper, motor home, recreational vehicle,
boat, personal watercraft, all-terrain vehicle or golf cart may be parked on
any residential lot within any district as defined in this Chapter except on a
paved driveway intended for parking or access to garage or carport, or other
paved area intended for parking, which in no event shall exceed the limitations
contained in Section
6-9-2B of this Section. Where a paved surface is required hereunder, any
graveled surface existing prior to the effective date of this Chapter is
permitted for such use, but no such existing graveled area may be increased in
size or surface area.
      1.   With the exception of necessary points of access to the lot, or to
buildings, no such paved area may be situated closer than six feet (6’) from
any lateral property line, five feet (5’) from the rear property line, twenty
five feet (25’) from the front lot line, or ten feet (10’) from any primary
structure on an adjacent lot. Any existing gravel surface in violation of the
requirements of this subsection may remain in place for a period of not more
than two (2) years from the effective date of this Chapter at which point such
use shall be discontinued and terminated.
      2.   Campers and recreational vehicles parked on a residential lot may be
used as a temporary residence for no more than seventy two (72) hours.
      3.   Construction trailers or trailers designed for hauling only shall
not be parked on any residential lot except inside of a permanent structure,
unless in use incident to a valid and current building permit. Such use
incident to a building permit shall be limited to a period no more than twenty
four (24) hours prior to the commencement of work onsite and no more than 24
hours after completion of such work, and shall not exceed five (5) days. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2423, 12-2-2002; Ord. 2490, 7-6-2004; Ord. 2771, 1-
19-2010)
6-9-3: ER ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The ER District is intended to promote large-lot, detached
single-family residential development, to preserve the natural features of the
land, such as the topography and vegetation, and to provide an alternative to
the historical pattern of development within the City of Dixon. All parcels
shall be served by public water and sewer. The overall density of the ER
District shall not exceed two (2) dwelling units per gross buildable acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Child day care providers as defined in Section
6-2-3 of this Title.
      2.   Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by
not more than ten (10) persons.
      3.   Home occupations as defined in Section
6-2-3 of this Title.
      4.   Neighborhood parks/tot lots.
      5.   One-family detached dwellings.
      6.   Planned unit developments in accordance with the regulations of
Chapter 12 of this Title.
      7.   School: elementary, junior high.
      8.   Truck gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is
involved and when no sale of products is conducted on the premises.
      9.   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year; provided, however, temporary carports are not permitted
in an ER Estate Residential District.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Bed and breakfast inn.
      2.   Camp, not-for-profit.
      3.   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums, public/private.
      4.   Child care homes.
      5.   Churches, synagogues, temples, mosques, and other places of worship.
      6.   Community or regional park.
      7.   Community center, public.
      8.   Congregate housing facility.
      9.   Federal, State, County, or City administrative or public safety
facilities.
      10.   Golf courses and country clubs, public/private.
      11.   Private club or lodge.
      12.   Public utility facilities: filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.
      13.   Radio, television and/or telecommunication tower.
      14.   School - high and college, public/private.
      15.   Transformer station.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: The maximum height of buildings permitted shall
be as follows:
      1.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: Thirty-five feet (35').
      2.   Public And Religious Buildings (Including Hospitals, Schools,
Churches, Synagogues, Temples And Other Places Of Worship, And Other
Institutions): forty-five feet (45') for the main structure.
      3.   For height exceptions refer to Chapter 3, Section
6-3-7.
   (E)   Lot Size And Width:
Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet, and a width at the established property line of not less than one
hundred feet (100').
Public and religious buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
be on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet
and a width at the building line of not less than two hundred feet (200').
   (F)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following required yard setback areas are provided and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard:   40 feet minimum.
         Side Yard:   15 feet minimum.
         Rear Yard:   40 feet minimum.
   (G)   Lot Length/Width Ratio:
      Ratio:   4:1 maximum
   (H)   Lot Coverage; Maximum Area: Not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the lot area of an interior lot nor more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot
area of a corner lot may be covered by buildings, exclusive of accessory
buildings.
   (I)   Floor Area Standards: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in
any ER District shall have a total ground floor area of not less than 1,500
square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility
rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes. Every dwelling of more than one story
hereafter erected in any ER District shall have a total floor area, measured
from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than two thousand (2,000)
square feet including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that
enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas.
   (J)   Setbacks From Major Roads: No building shall be located any closer
than seventy five feet (75') from the right-of-way of any arterial road, sixty
feet (60’) from the right-of-way of any major collector, or forty feet (40’)
from any other right-of-way, as identified in the City of Dixon Comprehensive
Plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2423, 12-2-2002)
6-9-4: CR COUNTRYSIDE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The CR District is intended to promote low to medium density
single-family residences on lots where adequate public sewer and water systems
exist or can be made available. The CR District serves as a transitional zone
between Estate Residential districts and higher density residential areas of
the City of Dixon. The overall density of the CR District shall not exceed four
(4) dwelling units per gross buildable acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Child day care providers as defined in Section
6-2-3 of this Title.
      2.   Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by
not more than ten (10) persons.
      3.   Home occupations as defined in Section
6-2-3 of this Title.
      4.   Neighborhood parks/tot lots.
      5.   One-family detached dwellings.
      6.   Planned unit developments in accordance with the regulations of
Chapter 12 of this Title.
      7.   School: elementary, junior high.
      8.   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year; provided, however, temporary carports are not permitted
in a CR Countryside Residential District.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums, public/private.
      2.   Child care homes.
      3.   Churches, synagogues, temples, mosques and other places of worship.
      4.   Community or regional park.
      5.   Community center, public.
      6.   Congregate housing facility.
      7.   Federal, State, County, or City administrative or public safety
facilities.
      8.   Golf courses and country clubs, public/private.
      9.   Private club or lodge.
      10.   Public utility facilities: filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.
      11.   Radio, television and/or telecommunication tower.
      12.   School - high and college, public/private.
      13.   Transformer station.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: The maximum height of buildings permitted shall
be as follows:
      1.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: Thirty-five feet (35').
      2.   Public and Religious Buildings (including hospitals, schools,
churches, synagogues, temples, mosques and other places of worship, and other
institutions): forty-five feet (45') for the main structure.
      3.   For height exceptions refer to Chapter 3, Section
6-3-7.
   (E)   Lot Size And Width: Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and a width at the established property
line of not less than seventy feet (70').
Public and religious buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
be on a lot having an area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet and a width at the building line of not less than one hundred feet (100').
   (F)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following required yard setback areas are provided and maintained:
   1.   Front Yard:   35 feet minimum.
      Side Yard:   10 feet minimum.
      Rear Yard:   35 feet minimum.
   (G)   Lot Length/Width Ratio:
      Ratio:   3:1 maximum
   (H)   Lot Coverage; Maximum Area: Not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the lot area of an interior lot nor more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot
area of a corner lot may be covered by buildings, exclusive of accessory
buildings.
   (I)   Floor Area Standards: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in
any CR District shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes. Every dwelling
of more than one story hereafter erected in any CR District shall have a total
floor area, measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than
one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for living,
eating or sleeping purposes, except that enclosed space intended for habitable
rooms which are to be completed within a reasonable time may be considered in
computing such floor areas.
   (J)   Setbacks From Major Roads: No building shall be located any closer
than seventy five feet (75’) from the right-of-way of any arterial road, fifty
feet (50’) from the right-of-way of any major collector, or thrity five feet
(35’) from any other right-of-way, as identified in the City of Dixon
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2423, 12-2-2002)
6-9-5: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-1 District is established to protect, promote, and
maintain the development of single-family detached housing and limited public
and institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding residential
neighborhood. The R-1 District is intended to provide for the continued
development of the historic, established pattern of single-family development
in the City of Dixon, where public water and sewer utility service is or can be
made available. The overall density of the R-1 District shall not exceed seven
(7) dwelling units per gross buildable acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Child day care providers as defined in Section
6-2-3 of this Title.
      2.   Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by
not more than ten (10) persons.
      3.   Home occupations as defined in this Title.
      4.   Neighborhood parks/tot Lots.
      5.   One-family detached dwellings.
      6.   Planned unit developments in accordance with the regulations of
Chapter 12 of this Title.
      7.   Transitional Uses: Two-family dwellings, principal offices of
physicians, dentists, lawyers, architects, real estate brokers, and other
professional occupations, when conducted in a residential structure used
primarily as a home and when located on lots having a side line adjoining a lot
in a business or manufacturing district, or adjacent to a railroad right of way
directly across a street or alley, provided that:
         (a)   The lot on which the transitional use is located does not extend
more than seventy-five feet (75') from the adjoining business or manufacturing
district, or more than one hundred twenty feet (120') in depth from the street
line in cases where the lot does not adjoin, but faces a business or
manufacturing district;
         (b)   There is a minimum lot area of five thousand (5,000) square feet
for each two-family dwelling;
         (c)   The home occupations are conducted in conjunction with the use
of a dwelling unit as a home by the occupant thereof, with not more than two
(2) employees other than members of the related family, and that the
residential character of the exterior of the dwelling is not changed. Medical
clinics are not included or permitted.
      8.   School: elementary, junior high.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleum, public/private.
      2.   Child care homes.
      3.   Churches, synagogue, temples, mosques and other places of worship.
      4.   Community or regional park.
      5.   Community center, public.
      6.   Golf courses and country clubs, public/private.
      7.   Penal or correctional institution.
      8.   Private club or lodge.
      9.   Public utility facilities: Filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.
      10.   Radio, television and/or telecommunication tower.
      11.   Transformer station.
      12.   Carpentry equipment, material storage and occasional shop work if
the premises has been used as a storage building in compliance with the City
Code immediately proceeding the filing of a petition for special use.
   (D)   Height of Buildings: The maximum height of buildings permitted shall
be as follows:
      1.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: Twenty-five feet (25') and not over
two and one-half (2 1/2) stories.
      2.   Public and Religious Buildings (including hospitals, schools,
churches, synagogues, temples, mosques and other places of worship, and other
institutions): forty-five feet (45') for the main structure.
      3.   For height exceptions refer to Chapter 3, Section
6-3-7.
   (E)   Lot Size and Width:
Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square
feet, and a width at the established property line of not less than sixty feet
(60').
Public and religious buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
be on a lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet
and a width at the building line of not less than seventy-five feet (75').
   (F)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following required yard setback areas are provided and maintained:
Front Yard:   25 feet minimum. In no case shall a front yard of more than fifty
feet (50') be required.
Side Yard:   On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there shall be a
side yard on each side of not less than five feet (5'). The combined total of
the side yards for interior lots shall not be less than twelve feet (12') and
the combined total of side yards for corner lots shall not be less than fifteen
feet (15').
On corner lots created prior to the effective date of this Title, there shall
be maintained a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent
to the street which intersects the street upon which the building or structure
maintains frontage, and in the case of a reversed corner lot, there shall be
maintained a setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%)
of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but
such setback need not exceed fifteen feet (15'). No accessory building on the
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the
adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side
lot of the adjacent lot.
On corner lots created subsequent to the effective date of this Title, there
shall be maintained a corner side yard of not less than twenty-five feet (25')
on the side of the lot adjacent to the street.
Rear Yard:   30 feet minimum.
   (G)   Lot Length/Width Ratio:
   Ratio:   4:1 maximum
   (H)   Lot Coverage; Maximum Area: Not more than thirty-five percent (35%) of
the lot area of an interior lot nor more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot
area of a corner lot may be covered by buildings, exclusive of accessory
buildings.
   (I)   Floor Area Standards: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in
any R-1 One-Family District, shall have a total ground floor area of not less
than nine hundred sixty (960) square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes. Every dwelling
of more than one story hereafter erected in any R-1 One-Family District shall
have a total floor area, measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of
not less than fourteen hundred fifty (1,450) square feet including utility
rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that enclosed space intended for
habitable rooms which are to be completed within a reasonable time may be
considered in computing such floor areas.
   (J)   Setbacks From Major Roads: No building shall be located any closer
than fifty feet (50’) from the right-of-way of any arterial road, thirty five
feet (35’) from the right-of-way of any major collector, or twenty five feet
(25’) from any other right-of-way, as identified in the City of Dixon
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2268, 8-21-2000)
6-9-6: R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-2 District is intended to promote and maintain the
development of low density multiple-family housing and limited public and
institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding residential
neighborhood. This District is intended to provide for duplex, single-family
attached residences, and low rise apartments on lots where public water and
sewer utilities exist or can be made available. The overall density of the R-
2 District shall not exceed twelve (12) dwelling units per gross buildable
acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
   Two-family dwellings (including condominium dwellings).
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Any special use permitted in the R-1 District.
      2.   Bed and breakfast.
      3.   Child care centers.
      4.   Child care homes.
      5.   Churches, synagogue, temples, mosques and other places of worship.
      6.   Congregate housing.
      7.   Dwelling group.
      8.   Group home.
      9.   Heliport (only in conjunction with a hospital or municipal use).
      10.   Hospitals, public or private.
      11.   Library, public.
      12.   Life care facility.
      13.   Nursing homes.
      14.   Senior citizen housing.
      15.   Single-family attached dwellings (townhomes) .
      16.   Three and four-family dwellings, as transitional use, when located
on lots having a side lot line adjoining or when facing a business or
manufacturing use, or railroad right of way; provided, the building is located
on a lot having a width of not less than sixty feet (60') and has an area of
not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      17.   A commercial greenhouse, provided the premises has been used as a
garden supply store for more than ten (10) years immediately preceding the
filing of the Application for Special Use.
      18.   Charitable Resource Center, which is defined as a resource center
owned by a charitable organization that accepts donations of clothing,
furniture, furnishings, toys and related items and disburses those items to
persons with need.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: The same regulations shall apply as permitted in
the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
   (E)   Lot Size And Width: Single-Family Dwellings: The same regulations
shall apply as permitted in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
Two-Family Dwellings: Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than seventy-five feet (75'). The minimum lot area for any individual
attached single-family dwelling that shares a common wall or lot line with
another attached single-family dwelling shall be three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet, with a minimum lot width of thirty-five feet (35'). In no
case shall the sum of both individual attached single-family dwellings be less
in lot area and lot width than that required for a two-family dwelling herein.
Each individual existing dwelling unit shall comply with the City of Dixon
building codes in effect at the time of application for subdivision.
Converted Dwellings: An existing one-family dwelling located on a lot of less
area than required by this Section may be converted to a two-family dwelling
without increasing the lot size, provided that the building is not enlarged
beyond its present outside dimensions and that all other regulations of this
Title are complied with. Additions may be made to an existing building only
when lot size and yard requirements of this Section can be complied with. Each
individual existing dwelling unit shall comply with the City of Dixon building
codes in effect at the time of application for conversion of a single-family
dwelling to a two-family dwelling.
Public and Religious Buildings: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 Districts.
   (F)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:
Front Yard:   The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 Districts.
Side Yard:   Single-Family Detached Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-1 Districts.
Two-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required for single-
family detached dwellings. There shall be no side yard required along the lot
line that is shared by two (2) individual attached single-family dwellings,
each of which comply with the minimum lot area requirements of the R-2 District
for individual attached single-family dwellings.
Rear Yard:   Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is constructed
shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
   (G)   Lot Coverage: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 District.
   (H)   Setbacks From Major Roads: No building shall be located any closer
than fifty feet (50’) from the right-of-way of any arterial road, thirty five
feet (35’) from the right-of-way of any major collector, or twenty five feet
(25’) from any other right-of-way, as identified in the City of Dixon
Comprehensive Plan.
   (I)   Floor Area Standards:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-1 District.
      2.   Two-Family Dwellings: Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected in
any R-2 District, shall have a total floor area of not less than nine hundred
sixty (960) square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls,
including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches,
breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that enclosed
space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997; amd. Ord. 2501, 11-1-2004; amd. Ord. 3279, 3-21-2022)
6-9-7: R-3 MODERATE DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-3 District is intended to promote and maintain the
development of moderate density multiple-family housing and limited public and
institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding residential
neighborhood. This District is intended to provide for duplex, single-family
attached residences, and low rise apartments on lots where public water and
sewer utilities exist or can be made available. The overall density of the R-
3 District shall not exceed 24 dwelling units per gross buildable acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
Any use permitted in the R-2 District.
Multiple-Family Dwelling.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Any special use permitted in the R-2 District.
      2.   Business and professional offices (including medical).
      3.   Federal, State, County, or City administrative or public safety
facilities.
      4.   Institutions for the mentally handicapped, public/private.
      5.   Mobile Home Parks.
      6.   Municipal or private recreational building.
      7.   Museum, public.
      8.   Railroad right-of-way.
      9.   Temporary emergency shelters until May 1, 2001.
   (D)   Required Yard Setback Areas:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following required yard
setback areas are provided and maintained:
Front Yard:   40 feet minimum, exclusive of parking areas. 45 feet minimum
including parking areas.
Side Yard:   Ten feet (10') interior side yard.
For exterior side yards there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than fifteen feet (15') and a combined total of side yards
of not less than twenty-five feet (25') for all multiple-family dwellings of
not more than two (2) stories in height. For each additional story added above
the two (2) stories, the side yard on each side of the main building shall be
increased two feet (2') in width. On corner lots the exterior side yard on the
intersecting street side shall not be less than fifteen feet (15'), except in
the case of a reversed corner lot, where there shall be a side yard of not less
than fifty percent (50%) of the established front yard setbacks on that street.
No accessory building on the reversed corner lot shall project beyond the side
front yard setback line, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side
or rear lot line.
Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
Rear Yard:   Thirty feet (30') minimum for interior lots;
Twenty feet (20') minimum on corner lots or lots abutting adjacent business
districts.
   (E)   Height Of Buildings:
      1.   No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to
exceed four (4) stories nor shall it exceed forth-five feet (45') in height.
      2.   Public and Religious Buildings (including hospitals, schools,
churches, synagogues, temples, mosques and other places of worship, and other
institutions): Sixty feet (60') for the main structure.
      3.   For height exceptions refer to Chapter 3, Section
6-3-7.
   (F)   Lot Coverage; Maximum Area:
Not more than sixty percent (60%) of the lot area of an interior lot nor more
than fifty-five percent (55%) of the lot area of a corner lot may be covered by
buildings, exclusive of accessory structures.
   (G)   Maximum Residential Density:
   The following lot areas are required:
Two-family dwellings hereafter established shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet and a width at the building line
of not less than sixty feet (60').
A multiple-family dwelling shall be erected on a lot determined on the
following basis for each unit. No multiple-family dwelling shall be located on
a lot of less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet:
   Land Square Footage Requirements:
 
1 bedroom apartment 1800
2 bedroom apartment 2200
Over 3 bedrooms     2400
      
   (H)   Length/Width Ratio:   
      Ratio: 6:1 maximum
   (I)   Setbacks From Major Roads: No building shall be located any closer
than fifty feet (50’) from the right-of-way of any arterial or collector road,
as identified in the City of Dixon Comprehensive Plan or forty feet (40’) from
any other right-of-way. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord., 12- - 2000)
6-9-8: R-4 HIGH DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-4 District is intended to promote and maintain the
development of multiple-family housing and limited public and institutional
uses adjacent to the central business district to encourage walk-in trade for
downtown businesses, civic and cultural facilities and employment
opportunities. The R-4 District is intended to provide for convenient and
affordable housing opportunities, at densities characteristic of high-rise
multiple-family residential buildings. The overall density of the R-4 District
shall not exceed forty eight (48) dwelling units per gross buildable acre.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-3 District, excluding child day care
provider.
      2.   Boarding and lodging houses.
      3.   Multiple-family dwellings and apartments (including condominium
apartments).
      4.   One-family row dwelling (party wall type) with not more than six (6)
dwelling units in a building (including condominium apartments).
      5.   Tourist homes having not more than five (5) rooms for transient
guests.
      6.   Transitional Uses: Principal offices of physicians, dentists,
lawyers, architects, real estate brokers and other professional occupations,
when conducted in a residential structure used primarily as a home and when
located on lots having a side line adjoining a lot in a business or
manufacturing district, or adjacent to a railroad right of way, or when facing
a business or manufacturing district or a railroad right of way directly across
a street or alley, provided that:
         (a)   The lot on which the transitional use is located does not extend
more than seventy-five feet (75') from the adjoining business or manufacturing
district, or more than one hundred twenty feet (120') in depth from the street
line in cases where the lot does not adjoin, but faces a business or
manufacturing district;
         (b)   The home occupations are conducted in conjunction with the use
of a dwelling unit as a home by the occupant thereof, with not more than two
(2) employees other than members of the related family, and that the
residential character of the exterior of the dwelling is not changed. Medical
clinics are not included or permitted;
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Any special use permitted in the R-3 District, except for the
following use which is prohibited:
         (a)   Mobile Home Parks.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed six (6) stories nor shall it exceed sixty-five
feet (65') in height.
   (E)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building or structure nor the
enlargement of any building or structure shall be hereinafter erected or
maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained
in connection with such structure or enlargement:
Front Yard:   20 feet minimum.
Side Yard:   10 feet interior side yard. For exterior side yards there shall be
a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than five feet (5') and
a combined total of side yards of not less than fifteen feet (15') for all
multiple-family dwellings of not more than two (2) stories in height. For each
additional story added above the two (2) stories, the side yard on each side of
the main building shall be increased two feet (2') in width. On corner lots the
exterior side yard on the intersecting street side shall not be less than ten
feet (10'), except in the case of a reversed corner lot, where there shall be a
side yard of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the established front yard
setbacks on that street. No accessory building on the reversed corner lot shall
project beyond the side front yard setback line, nor be located nearer than
five feet (5') to the side or rear lot line.
Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
Rear Yard:   There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty-five feet (25')
for interior lots nor less than fifteen feet (15') on corner lots or lots
abutting adjacent business districts.
Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
   (F)   Lot Coverage: Not more than sixty-five percent (65%) of the lot area
of an interior lot nor more than sixty percent (60%) of the lot area of a
corner lot may be covered by a building exclusive of accessory buildings.
   (G)   Maximum Residential Density: The following lot areas are required:
A multiple-family dwelling shall be erected on a lot determined on the
following basis for each unit. No multiple-family dwelling shall be located on
a lot of less than six thousand (6,000) square feet:
         Land Square Footage Requirements:
         1 bedroom apartment          900
         2 bedroom apartment         1100
         Over 3 bedrooms            1500
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord., 11- -2004)
CHAPTER 10
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Purpose
6-10-2: B-1 Limited Neighborhood Business District
6-10-3: B-2 General Business District
6-10-4: CBD Central Business District
6-10-5: BH-X Interchange Planned Unit Development District
6-10-1: PURPOSE:
The business districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, to promote public safety, comfort, morals, convenience and the general
welfare, and to protect the economic base of the City and the value of
property. These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
   (A)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate locations for
the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and strengthening the
economic base of the City.
   (B)   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create
noise, odors, hazards, unsightliness, or which may generate excessive traffic.
   (C)   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacency to or
inclusion in a residential area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to such areas so as to offset the disadvantage.
   (D)   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion.
   (E)   To provide for the establishment of off-street parking facilities,
permitted and required, so as to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote
shopping convenience and business prosperity. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-10-2: B-1 LIMITED NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The B-1 District is established to maintain the scale and
promote the continuation and establishment of commercial centers which provide
goods and services primarily for the convenience of the residents of the
surrounding neighborhood. It is not intended to permit major commercial or
service establishments which would attract substantial amounts of trade from
outside the neighborhood. The development standards and range of allowable uses
for the B-1 District are designed to maintain a relatively small-scale,
pedestrian-oriented environment.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Apparel shop.
      2.   Art and school supply store.
      3.   Auto accessory store.
      4.   Bakery shop, including the baking and processing of food products
(when prepared for retail use on the premises only).
      5.   Banks and financial institutions.
      6.   Barber shop, beauty parlor, chiropody, massage or similar personal
service shop.
      7.   Book and stationery stores.
      8.   Business office equipment sales and service.
      9.   Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sale.
      10.   Candy and ice cream shops.
      11.   Coin and philatelic stores.
      12.   Community center and house of worship.
      13.   Currency exchanges.
      14.   Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair when
conducted for retail sales on the premises only.
      15.   Drug stores.
      16.   Dry cleaning and pressing up to seven hundred fifty (750) pounds of
dry cleaning per day.
      17.   Dwelling units, provided they are located above the first floor and
above a permitted business use. Dwelling units shall not be permitted on the
ground floor of business buildings or in the rear of business establishments on
the ground floor.
      18.   Electrical appliance store and repair, but not including appliance
assembly or manufacturing.
      19.   Fire station.
      20.   Florist shop and conservatory for retail trade on the premises
only.
      21.   Food and fruit stores.
      22.   Frozen food store.
      23.   Gift shops.
      24.   Hardware stores.
      25.   Hobby and craft stores.
      26.   Household appliance store.
      27.   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slip covers, and other similar articles, when conducted as part of
the retail operations and secondary to the main use.
      28.   Jewelry store and watch repair.
      29.   Launderette and laundromat.
      30.   Leather goods and luggage store.
      31.   Meat markets.
      32.   Meeting halls, lodge halls, fraternal organizations and clubs;
provided, they are located in a basement or above the first floor and above a
business use permitted in this Section, or said uses may be located on the
ground floor when permitted business establishment occupies street frontage
except for an entranceway to the rear use.
      33.   Municipal or private recreational building.
      34.   Musical instrument sales and repair, retail trade only.
      35.   Newsstand.
      36.   Offices, business and professional, including medical clinics.
      37.   Paint and wallpaper store.
      38.   Photography studio, including the development of film and pictures
when conducted as a part of the retail business on the premises.
      39.   Plumbing showroom, without shop or repair facilities.
      40.   Police station.
      41.   Optician, optometrist.
      42.   Postal substations, finance stations and contract stations.
      43.   Public utility collection offices.
      44.   Restaurants, tearoom and cafe, when the established is not of the
drive-in type where food is served to occupants remaining in motor vehicles and
fast-food restaurants.
      45.   Savings and loan associations.
      46.   Sewing machine sales and service.
      47.   Shoe sales and/or repair.
      48.   Sporting goods store.
      49.   Stationery store.
      50.   Tobacco shop.
      51.   Toy shop.
      52.   Travel bureau and transportation ticket office.
      53.   Variety store.
      54.   Video stores, retail.
      55.   Any other similar type retail store not specifically listed herein,
and which has the economic compatibility with the established uses on adjoining
properties.
      56.   All activities, except for automobile off-street parking facilities
as permitted or required in this B-1 District, shall be conducted primarily
within an enclosed building.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Auditorium, public.
      2.   Bar, tavern or lounge, free standing.
      3.   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleum, public/private.
      4.   Child care centers.
      5.   Congregate housing.
      6.   Dispensing organization.
      7.   Funeral home.
      8.   Institutions for the mentally handicapped, public or private.
      9.   Life care housing facility.
      10.   Library, public.
      11.   Museum, public.
      12.   Nursing Homes.
      13.   Package liquor stores.
      14.   Parks, public or private.
      15.   Public utility facilities: filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.
      16.   Radio/TV transmitting or antenna towers, commercial.
      17.   Railroad right-of-way.
      18.   Railroad station.
      19.   Restaurant, carry-out.
      20.   Senior citizen housing.
      21.   Telephone exchange, antenna towers.
      22.   Transformer station.
      23.   Office and storage facility for an organization qualified under
Internal Revenue Code §501(c)(3) that provides housing opportunities.
      24.   Emergency shelter/mission.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: No building or structure shall be erected to
exceed a height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty-five feet
(35') in height.
   (E)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be constructed or
enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection
with such building:
      1.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this District. However, when
lots within this District are adjacent to and adjoining lots in a Residential
District, all of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting
streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the
frontage as has been established in the Residential District.
         (a)   Exception: When existing buildings located in this District have
already established a building line at the street line or at a depth less than
required herein, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the first fifty feet (50') of B-1 District frontage adjacent to the
Residential District, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not
less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required, except for a corner lot which
abuts upon a residential district, or upon an alley separating this District
from a residential district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to
one-half (1/2) the front yard required in the abutting residential district,
but in no case more than ten feet (10'). The setback shall also apply if the
business building fronts the intersecting street, commonly referred to as the
side street.
   Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line.
         (a)   Exception: When existing buildings located in this District have
an established building line providing a rear yard of less depth than required
in this Section, then all new buildings built as replacement for such buildings
may conform to such established building line, except for the first fifty feet
(50') of a B-1 District adjacent to an R-1 District, in which case the rear
yard shall conform to the requirements of this Section. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997;
amd. Ord. 2889, 9-17-2012; Ord. 3053, 7-17-17; Ord. 3178, 12-2-2019)
6-10-3: B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The B-2 District is intended to provide for retail
establishments which offer a wide range of goods and services in locations
which abut or front, and have access to, either directly or via frontage roads,
heavily traveled major arterial roads. The purpose is to provide for commercial
activities which require large land areas, are oriented to the automobile, and
do not depend upon adjoining uses for reasons of comparison shopping and
pedestrian trade.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Any use permitted in the B-1 District.
      2.   Agricultural implement sales and services, when conducted wholly
within an enclosed building, except as may be permitted in Section
6-3-12 "Accessory Uses Outside Commercial Buildings."
      3.   Antique shops.
      4.   Automobile motor repair and service shop (including automobile body
repair and rebuilding, or painting of automobiles).
      5.   Automobile washing facility (including the use of mechanical
conveyors, blowers and steam cleaning).
      6.   Bar, tavern or lounge.
      7.   Battery and tire service stations.
      8.   Beverage, bottling and distributing.
      9.   Bicycle sales and repair.
      10.   Boat sales and service.
      11.   Bowling alleys, billiard and pool rooms, dance halls, meeting
halls, lodge halls, fraternal organizations and clubs.
      12.   Building materials sales, when conducted wholly within a building,
except as may be permitted in Section
6-3-12 "Accessory Uses Outside Commercial Buildings."
      13.   Business machines and office supply stores.
      14.   Contractors' offices and shops, where no fabricating is done on the
premises and where all storage of material is within a building.
      15.   Costume rental shop.
      16.   Department stores.
      17.   Dispensing organization.
      18.   Dwelling units; provided, they are located above the first floor
and have a permitted business use. Dwelling units shall not be permitted on the
ground floor of business buildings or in the rear of business establishments on
the ground floor. Two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each
dwelling unit.
      19.   Employment agency.
      20.   Feed and seed store, wholesale.
      21.   Funeral home.
      22.   Furniture store, and upholstery when conducted as part of the
retail operations and secondary to the main use.
      23.   Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
      24.   Garden supplies and seed stores.
      25.   Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms, when business uses
occupy the street frontage except for an entranceway to the hotel lobby.
      26.   Library, public.
      27.   Liquor store, package goods only.
      28.   Locksmith.
      29.   Mirror and glazing shop.
      30.   Motels.
      31.   Motor vehicle sales, new and used.
      32.   Multi-screen cinema.
      33.   Museum, public.
      34.   Orthopedic and medical appliance store, but not including the
assembly or manufacture of such articles.
      35.   Pawn shop.
      36.   Pet shops, but not including animal hospitals.
      37.   Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade only on the
premises.
      38.   Print shop.
      39.   Plumbing, air conditioning, electrical showroom and shop.
      40.   Printing, publishing and issuing of newspapers, periodicals, books,
stationery and other reading matter.
      41.   Public auction rooms.
      42.   Physical fitness centers and tanning spas.
      43.   Restaurants, sit-down and carry-out.
      44.   Schools; music, dance, business, commercial or trade.
      45.   Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
      46.   Shopping center developed as a unified plan. Such center can be
developed to allow all uses in B-1 and B-2 Districts when accommodated in a
unified center having shared facilities, accesses and parking.
      47.   Taxidermists.
      48.   Theater, indoor.
      49.   Vending/merchandise distributor.
      50.   Any other similar type retail stores not specifically permitted
herein and which have economic compatibility with the established uses on
adjoining properties.
   (C)   Special Uses:
      1.   Any special use allowed in the B-1 District, except the following
uses which shall be prohibited: Nursing homes, congregate housing, life care
housing facility, and senior citizen housing.
      2.   Airport/landing field/strip (subject to FAA).
      3.   Amusement centers.
      4.   Automobile service stations.
      5.   Bakeries, wholesale.
      6.   Bar, tavern or lounge - freestanding.
      7.   Bus terminal.
      8.   Child care centers.
      9.   Fair grounds/permanent carnivals, public or private.
      10.   Food processing, packaging and distribution.
      11.   Greenhouse.
      12.   Kennel, commercial.
      13.   Penal or correctional institutions.
      14.   Processing or assembly limited to the following; provided, that
space occupied in a building does not exceed six thousand (6,000) square feet
of total floor and basement space, not including stairwells, or elevator
shafts; and provided, such processing or assembly can be conducted without
noise, vibration, odor, dust or any other condition which might be disturbing
to occupants of adjacent buildings. When manufacturing operations of the same
or similar products demand space exceeding six thousand (6,000) square feet,
they shall then be located in the LM District:
      15.   Products from finished materials such as plastic, bone, cloth,
cork, feathers, felt, fiber, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious
or semi-precious stones, rubber, shell or yarn.
      16.   Awnings, venetian blinds and window shades.
      17.   Brushes and brooms.
      18.   Cosmetics, drugs and perfumes.
      19.   Electrical equipment appliances.
      20.   Jewelry.
      21.   Medical and dental supplies.
      22.   Optical goods and equipment.
      23.   Pattern making (e.g. for foundry molds).
      24.   Scientific and precision instruments.
      25.   Restaurants, fast food.
      26.   Stadium/arena/armory/gymnasium.
      27.   Self-service storage facility.
   (D)   Height Of Buildings: The same regulations shall apply as are required
or permitted in the B-1 Limited Neighborhood Business District. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the height of a hotel (solely as defined in Section 6-2-3 as a
“HOTEL OR MOTEL, TRANSIENT”) shall not exceed either six (6) stories or sixty-
five feet (65').
   (E)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be constructed or
enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection
with such building:
      1.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this District. However, when
lots within this District are adjacent to and adjoining lots in a residential
district, all of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting
streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the
frontage as has been established in the residential district.
         (a)   Exception: When existing buildings located in this District have
already established a building line at the street line or at a lesser depth
than required herein, then all new buildings may conform to the same building
line, except for the fifty feet (50') of B-2 General Business District frontage
adjacent to the residential district, whereupon there shall be provided a front
setback of not less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required, except for a corner lot which
abuts upon a residential district, or upon an alley separating this District
from a residential district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to
one-half (1/2) the front yard required in the abutting residential district,
but in no case more than ten feet (10'). The setback shall also apply if the
business building fronts the intersecting street, commonly referred to as the
side street.
   Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2038, 11-17-1997; Ord.
3178, 12-2-2019; Ord. 3290, 4-4-2022)
6-10-4: CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The CBD District is intended to provide for the City's
highest intensity core of retail, commercial, financial, and service
facilities. This area should function as the primary center of business and
civic activity for the entire community. The purpose is to build upon and
strengthen the core retail and municipal function of the city center as the hub
for business and civic life.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All permitted uses in the B-1 and B-2 zoning districts
are permitted in the CBD District, except for those uses listed as special uses
in Section
6-10-4C., below. Dispensing organizations are permitted in the CBD District.
   (C)   Special Uses: All special uses in the B-1 and B-2 zoning districts may
be allowed in the CBD District as a special use. The following permitted uses
allowed in the B-1 and B-2 Districts will be permitted only as a special use in
the CBD District:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales.
      2.   Auto washing facility.
      3.   Battery and tire services.
      4.   Beverage bottling.
      5.   Boat sales and service.
      6.   Feed and seed store, wholesale.
      7.   Funeral home.
      8.   Motel.
      9.   Multi-screen cinema.
      10.   Plumbing, air conditioning, electrical showroom and shop.
      11.   Vending/merchandise distributor.
   (D)   Height of Buildings: No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of six (6) stories nor shall it exceed
sixty-five feet (65') in height.
   (E)   Required Yard Setback Areas: No building shall be constructed or
enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection
with such building:
      1.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this District. However, when
lots within this District are adjacent to and adjoining lots in any residential
district, all of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting
streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the
frontage as has been established in the residential district.
         (a)   Exception: When existing buildings located in this District have
already established a building line at the street line or at a lesser depth
than required herein, then all new buildings may conform to the same building
line, except for the fifty feet (50') of CBD District frontage adjacent to the
residential district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not
less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required, except for a corner lot which
abuts upon a residential district, or upon an alley separating this District
from a residential district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to
one-half (1/2) the front yard required in the abutting Residential District,
but in no case less than ten feet (10'). The same setback shall apply if
business buildings front the intersecting street, commonly referred to as the
side street.
   Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard setback is not required in this District.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 3178, 12-2-2019)
6-10-5: BH-X INTERCHANGE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The BH-X District is intended to encourage the development of
large parcels under a planned development approach for land in the vicinity of
the Illinois Tollway I-88. "High-profile" retail, office, limited manufacturing
and warehousing uses, which depend upon high visibility and ease of
accessibility to highways, are encouraged to be developed under a unified
master site plan in a well landscaped, campus setting.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted within a BH-
X District subject to the planned unit development regulations as provided in
Chapter 12 of this Title:
      1.   Airport/landing field/strip (subject to FAA).
      2.   Amusement centers.
      3.   Auditorium, public.
      4.   Automobile fuel and service stations, including vehicle washing
facilities.
      5.   Automobile/truck and recreational vehicle sales.
      6.   Automobile/truckstops.
      7.   Bus terminal.
      8.   Child care center.
      9.   Community center, public.
      10.   Conference or training center.
      11.   Distribution facility.
      12.   Fire, police, and rescue station.
      13.   Furniture store.
      14.   Golf courses.
      15.   Health and fitness center.
      16.   Heliport.
      17.   Hospitals, public or private.
      18.   Hotels and motels.
      19.   Institutions for the mentally handicapped.
      20.   Limited manufacture, processing, fabrication and/or assembly of
products.
      21.   Municipal or private recreational building.
      22.   Offices - business, and medical offices and clinics.
      23.   Parks, public or private.
      24.   Performance arts center.
      25.    Post office, drop off and pick up.
      26.   Public utility facilities: filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.
      27.   Railroad station.
      28.   Research facilities with experimental, testing or development
activities.
      29.   Restaurants: sit-down, carry-out and fast food.
      30.   Retail uses, ancillary to the principal use.
      31.   Stadium/arena.
      32.   Theater, movie or live performances.
      33.   Utility substation.
      34.   Accessory uses, clearly secondary to the principal use of the
property or building, provided they occupy in the aggregate not more than
twenty eprcent (20%) of the floor area of such building.
      35.   Any other similar type use not specifically listed herein, and is
compatible with the established uses on adjoining properties.
   (C)   Minimum Area: Each BH-X District shall contain a minimum of ten (10)
contiguous acres of land under single or joint ownership with consent of
involved landowners. Each principal use shall be located on not less than one
(1) acre of land and shall have a minimum Floor Area Ratio of 0.25.
   (D)   Required Yard Setback Areas: In addition to satisfying the Planned
Unit Development requirements of Chapter 12 and the landscape and buffering
requirements in Chapter 14, all yard setback areas shall be determined by the
Plan Commission upon review of a specific development proposal. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997)
CHAPTER 11
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Purpose
6-11-2: LM Limited Manufacturing/Business Park District
6-11-3: GM General Manufacturing District
6-11-1: PURPOSE:
The manufacturing districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare, and to protect
the economic base of the City as well as the value of real estate by regulating
manufacturing development in appropriate locations. These general objectives
include, among others, the following specific objectives:
   (A)   To protect established residential areas, and the health of families
living therein, by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities which may
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, fire
hazards and other objectionable influences, to those areas which are
appropriate therefore.
   (B)   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations from all types of
manufacturing and related activities so that economic structure of the
community may be strengthened, and that employment opportunities may be found
in the interest of public prosperity and welfare.
   (C)   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to rail and highways, so that the movement of raw materials,
finished products and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a
minimum of danger to public life and property.
   (D)   To establish proper standards of performance, which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities, while at the same time encourage and permit
the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the processing
of finished products without adversely affecting the health, morals, happiness,
safety, convenience and welfare of the people living and working in nearby
areas.
   (E)   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land by
prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with the plans for
City improvement and development.
   (F)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan of land use for all of the City, to conserve the use of
property, to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development, and to protect the character and established development in each
area of the community, to enhance and stabilize the value of land and to
protect the tax base of the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-11-2: LM LIMITED MANUFACTURING/BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: Since most uses permitted in this District will be in
close proximity to residential districts, it is hereby declared that
performance standards shall be high, and that all manufacturing, processing or
assembly of materials and products must be carried on in a manner not injurious
or offensive to the occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission of
odors, fumes, gases, dust, smoke, noise, vibrations or fire hazards. Properties
directly adjacent to Residential Districts shall be heavily buffered. The LM
District is intended to provide for a compatible mixture of office, research,
and light industrial/warehouse uses located adjacent to arterial roads. All
uses shall conform to the standards enumerated in Chapter 15: Environmental
Performance Standards. Permitted uses are:
      1.   Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
      2.   Artificial limb manufacture.
      3.   Auction houses with outside sales.
      4.   Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning and
body and fender repairing when done within the confines of a structure.
      5.   Batteries, manufacture and rebuilding.
      6.   Bedspring and mattress manufacture.
      7.   Belting.
      8.   Bicycle manufacture.
      9.   Boat building and repair.
      10.   Brooms and brushes.
      11.   Building equipment, building materials, lumber, coal, sand and
gravel yards, and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating
equipment of public agencies, or public utilities, or materials or equipment of
similar nature.
      12.   Canning and preserving.
      13.   Canvas and canvas products.
      14.   Carpet and rug cleaning.
      15.   Carpet manufacturing.
      16.   Carting, express hauling or storage yards.
      17.   Cement block manufacture.
      18.   Ceramic products, pottery and glazed tile.
      19.   Chick hatcheries.
      20.   Cigarettes and cigars.
      21.   Cleaning and dyeing establishments when employing facilities for
handling more than one thousand (1,000) pounds of dry goods per day.
      22.   Coated fabrics, except rubberized.
      23.   Cork and cork products.
      24.   Craft grower.
      25.   Creameries and dairies.
      26.   Cultivation center.
      27.   Distribution facility.
      28.   Drapery and bedding manufacture.
      29.   Drugs and pharmaceutical products.
      30.   Dwelling accommodations as may be needed to house a caretaker or
watchman employed on the premises, and their families.
      31.   Electrical motors and generators.
      32.   Engraving.
      33.   Felt manufacture.
      34.   Fire station.
      35.   Fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing.
      36.   Glass products, from previously manufactured glass.
      37.   Health and fitness center.
      38.   Heating appliances and sheet metal products, including stoves and
ranges.
      39.   Hosiery manufacture.
      40.   Ice cream and ice manufacture.
      41.   Laundries, more than one thousand (1,000) pounds capacity.
      42.   Machine shops and metal products manufacture, when not equipped
with heavy punch presses, drop forges, riveting and grinding machines or any
other equipment which may create noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, heat, glare
or fire hazards, disturbing to adjacent property occupants.
      43.   Metal polishing and plating.
      44.   Municipal or private recreational building.
      45.   Musical instruments.
      46.   Parks, public or private.
      47.   Perfumes and cosmetics.
      48.   Pianos and organs.
      49.   Plastic products, but not including the processing of the raw
materials.
      50.   Police, fire and rescue station.
      51.   Post office, drop off and pick up.
      52.   Processing organization.
      53.   Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas
regulation centers and underground gasholder stations.
      54.   Public utility facilities: filtration plant, heat or power plant,
water reservoir or pumping station.   
      55.   Radio/TV, transmitting or antenna tower, commercial.
      56.   Railroad right-of-way.
      57.   Railroad station.
      58.   Research facilities with experimental, testing or development
activities.
      59.   Rubber products (small), such as washers, gloves, footwear and
bathing caps, but excluding rubber and synthetic rubber processing.
      60.   Shoes and boots.
      61.   Sporting and athletic equipment.
      62.   Stone, marble and granite grinding and cutting.
      63.   Storage and sale of trailers, farm implements and other similar
equipment on an open lot.
      64.   Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks, each of fifty
thousand (50,000) gallons or less capacity, but only after the location and
protective measures have been approved by local governing officials.
      65.   Textiles; spinning, weaving, dyeing and printing.
      66.   Tool and die shops.
      67.   Tools and hardware, such as hand tools, bolts, nuts, screws,
cutlery, house hardware, locks and plumbing appliances.
      68.   Toys and children's vehicles.
      69.   Transporting organization.
      70.   Truck, tractor, trailer or bus storage yards.
      71.   Wholesale trade establishment.
      72.   Wire brush manufacture.
      73.   Accessory uses, clearly secondary to the principal use of the
property or building, provided they occupy in the aggregate not more than 20%
of the floor area of such building.
      74.   Any other similar type use not specifically listed herein, that is
compatible with the established uses on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Special Uses:
      1.   Airport/landing field/strip (subject to FAA).
      2.   Amusement centers.
      3.   Auditorium, public.
      4.   Automobile fuel and service stations, including vehicle washing
facilities.
      5.   Automobile/truck and recreational vehicle sales.
      6.   Automobile/truck stops.
      7.   Bus terminal.
      8.   Child care center.
      9.   Dispensing organization.
      10.   Excavation of gravel, sand or raw material.
      11.   Fair grounds/permanent carnivals, public or private.
      12.   Freight terminal.
      13.   Penal or correctional institution.
      14.   Recycling center.
      15.   Recycling plant.
      16.   Self-service storage facility.
      17.   Stadium/arena.
      18.   Telephone exchanges, antenna towers.
      19.   Emergency shelter/mission.
      20.   Schools: Dance.
   (C)   Height: No building or structure shall be erected or structurally
altered to exceed a height of four (4) stories nor shall it exceed forty-five
feet (45') in height, except as provided in Chapter 3.
   (D)   Yard Area: The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings shall be
not more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot or tract on which a
building permit has been issued.
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than fifty feet (50') wherein there shall be no structure of any kind, open
storage of materials or equipment or the parking of vehicles.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on both sides of the building, except where the property is
adjacent to a manufacturing district, in which event no side yard shall be
required but where the property is adjacent to a residential district, there
shall be a side yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') on the side
nearest to residential lots. The parking of private automobiles may be
permitted within the side yard areas, but not closer than five feet (5') to any
lot zoned for residential use.
   Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon
any Residential District, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less
than thirty feet (30'), and no storage of materials or equipment, or the
parking of automobiles shall take place within ten feet (10') closest to any
residential lot. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2806, 1-3-2011; Ord. 2843, 9-
19-2011; Ord. 3178, 12-2-2019)
6-11-3: GM GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in this District generally include
those manufacturing and industrial activities which cannot be operated
economically without creating some conditions which may be obnoxious or
objectionable to the occupants of adjoining properties and for that reason must
be grouped in areas where similar industrial uses are now located or where the
permitted uses will be best located in accordance with the comprehensive land
use plan of the City, which is designed to protect the welfare of the
community. All uses shall conform with the standards enumerated in Chapter 15:
Environmental Performance Standards. Permitted uses are:
      1.   Any use permitted in the LM District, excluding Municipal or private
recreational building.
      2.   Aircraft, assembly and testing of fuselage and motors.
      3.   Alcoholic beverages.
      4.   Asbestos and asbestos products.
      5.   Automobiles, trucks and trailers.
      6.   Blacksmith shop.
      7.   Blast furnaces, steel works or rolling mills.
      8.   Boiler works.
      9.   Box and crate manufacture.
      10.   Brass foundry.
      11.   Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacture.
      12.   Building materials, such as prefabricated houses, composition
wallboards, partitions and panels.
      13.   Cement products.
      14.   Charcoal.
      15.   Chalk.
      16.   Chemicals, not including those which may be inflammable or
explosive.
      17.   Coffin manufacture.
      18.   Cooperage works.
      19.   Corrugated metal products.
      20.   Cotton ginning and cotton wadding.
      21.   Cottonseed oil.
      22.   Craft grower.
      23.   Cultivation center.
      24.   Dyes, aniline, ink pigments and others.
      25.   Feed milling and processing.
      26.   Gelatin, vegetable and animals.
      27.   Glass blowing and manufacture.
      28.   Grain elevators.
      29.   Graphite and graphite products.
      30.   Hemp products.
      31.   Ink from primary raw materials, including colors and pigment.
      32.   Salvage yards and automobile wrecking yards.
      33.   Linoleum.
      34.   Lumber, preserving treatment, processing, sawmills and planing
mills.
      35.   Machinery, heavy manufacturing and repair, including electrical,
construction, mining and agriculture.
      36.   Meat and fish products, packing and processing of, but not
including slaughtering and glue and size manufacturing.
      37.   Metal foundries and casting.
      38.   Metal stamping and extrusion of metal products.
      39.   Motor testing or internal combustion motors.
      40.   Porcelain products, such as bathroom and kitchen equipment.
      41.   Processing organization.
      42.   Railroad equipment, such as railroad car and locomotive
manufacture.
      43.   Recycling center.
      44.   Recycling plant.
      45.   Rubber products, including tires and tubes and tire recapping.
      46.   Transporting organization.
      47.   Wax products, manufacture from paraffin.
      48.   Wool scouring and pulling.
   (B)   Special Uses: In addition to the foregoing the following uses may be
permitted if located more than five hundred feet (500') from any part of a
Residential District.
      1.   Any special use allowed in the LM District.
      2.   Acetylene gas manufacture.
      3.   Acid manufacture.
      4.   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
      5.   "Animal Control Facility" as defined in Section 2.18 of the Animal
Control Act   (510 ILCS 5/2.18)
      6.   Animal slaughterhouse and stockyards.
      7.   Arsenal.
      8.   Asphalt manufacture or refining.
      9.   Celluloid manufacture or treatment.
      10.   Cement, gypsum, lime or plaster of paris manufacture.
      11.   Coke ovens.
      12.   Creosote treatment or manufacture.
      13.   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacture.
      14.   Dispensing organization.
      15.   Distillation of bones, coal or wood.
      16.   Dyestuff manufacture.
      17.   Fat rendering.
      18.   Fertilizer manufacture.
      19.   Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
      20.   Gas (illuminating or heating) manufacture.
      21.   Glue, sizing or gelatin manufacture.
      22.   Gunpowder manufacture and storage.
      23.   Incinerator or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or refuse,
except for Municipal purposes.
      24.   Petroleum refining.
      25.   Recycling center.
      26.   Rock crushing.
      27.   Rubber or gutta percha manufacture or treatment.
      28.   Saltworks.
      29.   Sauerkraut, sausage or bologna manufacture.
      30.   Smelters.
      31.   Stone mill or quarry.
      32.   Sulfuric, nitric, hydrochloric or picric acid manufacture.
      33.   Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining.
      34.   Tar distillation or manufacture.
      35.   Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture.
      36.   Vinegar manufacture.
      37.   Yeast plant.
      38.   And in general those uses which have been declared a nuisance in
any court of record or which is or may be unreasonably obnoxious or offensive
in the opinion of the Building Official by reason of the emission of odor,
vapor, smoke, gas or noise.
   (C)   Height: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of six (6) stories or seventy-five feet
(75') except as provided in Chapter 3.
   (D)   Yard Areas:
      1.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all of the frontage
on one side of the street between intersecting streets, a public area or a
railroad right of way is located in a GM Manufacturing District. Where the
frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is
located partially in a GM Manufacturing District and partially in some other
use district, the front yard requirements of the other use district shall apply
to the GM Manufacturing District.
      2.   Side Yards: The same as required in the LM Manufacturing District.
         Refer to Chapter 14 for Buffer Yard Requirements.
      3.   Rear Yards: The same as required in the LM Manufacturing District.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2919, 7-15-2013; Ord. 2962, 4-20-2015; Ord.
3178, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIAL ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
PART A: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
6-12-1: Purpose and Intent
6-12-2: General Development Standards
6-12-3: Required Documents and Letters of Credit
PART A: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
6-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The general purposes of the Planned Unit Development are as follows:
      1.   Improved design, flexibility and diversification in arrangement of
structures.
      2.   Efficient use of land and more economic arrangement of land uses,
buildings, circulation systems and utilities.
      3.   Create more usable open space and preserve and utilize the natural
characteristics of the site in a harmonious fashion.
      4.   Encourage fully coordinated development in terms of architectural
styles, building forms and relationships.
      5.   For those developments containing residential uses, to permit an
increased residential density over the total project area in return for site
amenities within the planned unit development.
      6.   Any proposed development meeting the minimum area and locational
requirements can apply under the Planned Unit Development provisions gaining
considerable flexibility from the traditional development and lotting
requirements otherwise required under the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-12-2: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Locations Where Planned Unit Developments Are Permitted: Planned Unit
Developments are permitted in any residential, business and manufacturing
zoning district as a Special Use in accordance with the procedures in Chapter
13.
   (B)   Minimum Area: No Planned Unit Development shall be less than 2.4 acres
of contiguous land under single ownership or joint ownership with consent of
involved land owners. This Section shall not be interpreted to prohibit the
sale of all or portions of the approved project providing the requirements of
this Chapter are met.
   (C)   Uses Permitted In Residential Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   Residential planned unit developments are intended to permit a
mixture of a variety of land use types, such as single-family residential,
multi-family residential, and convenience uses if those uses are in the
decision of the City Council secondary or intended to serve strictly local
neighborhood commercial needs, and are established in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan of the City.
      2.   The total land area devoted to convenience uses, shall not exceed
five percent (5%) of the total land area of the planned unit development.
         (a)   For the purposes of these regulations, convenience uses are
defined as small establishments designed and intended to serve the daily or
frequent trade or service needs of the immediately surrounding population. Such
establishments include groceries, variety stores, drug stores, coin-operated
laundry and dry cleaning businesses, tailoring and dressmaking shops, beauty
and barber shops, professional offices, carry-out restaurants and similar small
scale uses. Specifically excluded are fast food and drive-in restaurants and
bars, lounges and other drinking establishments.
         (b)   Location: Convenience establishments shall be located only in
portions of planned unit developments: a) not served by similar facilities
within walking distance; and b) near dwelling unit densities of at least six
(6) units per acre, as to provide substantial walk-in trade. Where more than
one convenience establishment is proposed, they shall be grouped, arranged and
designed for maximum pedestrian convenience and vehicular circulation.
         (c)   Maximum Size of Establishments: No individual convenience
establishment established under the provisions of this Chapter shall have a
gross floor area in excess of five thousand (5,000) square feet, and no
combination of such establishments in any one location shall have a total gross
floor area of more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      3.   Within the BH-X District (Interchange Planned Unit Development
District) uses permitted are only those specified within the BH-X District.
      4.   Within the B-1, B-2, and CBD Districts, all uses permitted within
the residential and commercial districts may be permitted as a part of a
planned unit development.
      5.   Within the LM and GM Districts, all uses permitted within the
commercial and manufacturing districts may be permitted as a part of a planned
unit development.
   (D)   Ownership And Control: All sites to be developed as Planned Unit
Developments shall be under single ownership and control or, if the ownership
is diverse, then under unified control pursuant to an agreement of such owners
approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Applicable Regulations:
      1.   A Planned Unit Development shall be governed by the regulations of
the district in which the development is proposed, except as provided in this
Chapter and modified by and authorized in the ordinance approving the Planned
Unit Development. Said ordinance may provide for such exceptions from the
applicable district regulations governing setbacks, lot width, lot area and
other requirements as may be desirable to achieve the objectives of the
proposed Planned Unit Development, provided such exceptions are consistent with
the standards and criteria contained in this Chapter.
      2.   Modifications in conventional zoning and subdivision regulations are
privileges and will be considered by the City Council only in direct response
to the accrual of tangible benefits from the Planned Unit Development to the
City or the neighborhood in which it would be located. These benefits shall be
in the form of exceptional amenities; outstanding environmental, landscape,
architectural or site design; or the conservation of special man-made or
natural features of the site.
   (F)   Landscaping And Buffering: All Planned Unit Developments shall conform
with the applicable requirements for landscaping and buffering set forth in
Chapter 14 of this Title.
   (G)   Off-Street Parking And Loading: All Planned Unit Developments shall
conform with the applicable requirements for off-street parking and loading set
forth in Chapter 7 of this Title.
   (H)   Performance Standards: All Planned Unit Developments shall conform to
the environmental performance standards set forth in Chapter 15 of this Title.
   (I)   Signs: All Planned Unit Developments shall conform to the applicable
requirements for signs set forth in Chapter 6 of this Title.
   (J)   Residential Planned Unit Development Standards:
      1.   Determination Of Permitted Density: Except for developments which
qualified for increased density based on incentives under Section
6-12-2J.7 of this Chapter, the total number of dwelling units to be constructed
in a planned unit development shall not exceed the number that could be
developed on the same acreage if developed as a standard subdivision in the
zoning district in which it is located.
         (a)   One of the following techniques shall be used to determine the
total number of dwelling units allowed in a planned unit development:
            (1)   The total number of dwelling units permitted shall be
determined upon the submission of a subdivision plan prepared by the developer,
which plan shall comply with the strict requirements of the zoning district in
which it is located, and the City's Subdivision Ordinance; or
            (2)   The total number of dwelling units permitted in a Planned
Unit Development shall be determined by the following method:
   Step 1)   Calculate the gross acreage of the site, as defined in Section
6-2-3;
   Step 2)   Deduct thirty percent (30%) from the gross acreage determined in
Step 1;
   Step 3)   Apply the gross density, as defined in Chapter 2, to the remainder
of the property after subtracting the areas required in steps 1 and 2 above.
            (3)   The base density may be increased by providing any of the
amenities listed below in Section
6-12-2J.7.
      2.   Lot Coverage and Minimum Common Open Space:
         Max. Lot                  Min. Area in
         Coverage                  Common Open
         by Building                  Space*
 
ER        20%                30% but not less than 1 acre
CR        25%                25% but not less than 1 acre
R-1       30%                20% but not less than 1 acre
R-2       40%                15% but not less than 1 acre
R-3 & R-4 45% (2 story)      10% but not less than 1 acre
         55% (3-5 story)    10% but not less than 1.5 acre
         55% (over 5 story) 10% but not less than 2 acre
 
* Open spaces are specified minimums. Additional open space may add to the
desirability of the development.
      3.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage: The maximum impervious surface
coverage shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total area of the Planned
Unit Development.
      4.   More Than One Zoning District: If the proposed Planned Unit
Development is in more than one zoning district, the number of allowable
dwelling units and maximum lot coverage by building must be separately
calculated for each portion of the planned development that is in a separate
zone, and must then be combined to determine the number of dwelling units
allowable in the entire planned development. However, the distribution of
dwelling units and lot sizes within the planned development is not to be
affected by existing zoning district boundaries.
      5.   Perimeter Setback Requirements: Structures located on the perimeter
of the development shall comply with the minimum front, side or rear yard
setbacks, whichever are applicable, of the zoning district in which the
development is located. This yard shall be kept free of all buildings,
including patios, decks and balconies, and off-street parking areas and shall
be maintained as landscaped open space.
      6.   Open Space:
         (a)   Minimum Amount: A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the gross
area of a Planned Unit Development shall be devoted to open space. Such open
space shall be limited to the following:
            (1)   Recreational open space, including but not limited to:
swimming pools, tennis courts, recreation buildings, jogging trails/fitness
courses, detention basins designed for recreational use, tot lots, ball and
soccer fields.
            (2)   Common open space.
            (3)   Detention and retention basins and ponds not designed for
dual recreational use, natural water features, wetlands, and conservation
areas. However, such open spaces when combined shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the required open space for a Planned Unit Development.
            (4)   Perimeter open space, including but not limited to: perimeter
open space abutting roadways and adjoining property, and perimeter parking lot
open space.
         (b)   Tot Lots: A minimum of one (1) tot lot shall be provided for
every one hundred (100) dwelling units in a Planned Unit Development. Tot lots
shall be centrally located in relationship to the dwelling units to which they
serve.
         (c)   Distribution And Design:
            (1)   Open space shall be distributed equitably throughout a
Planned Unit Development in relationship to the dwelling units to which it
serves.
            (2)   Open spaces shall be generally linked to provide a continuous
network.
            (3)   Buildings and other structures shall be positioned on a site
to provide for maximum, usable open space.
            (4)   Retention basins and ponds shall have a minimum of fifty (50)
feet of usable open space surrounding the perimeter of such ponds and basins.
         (d)   Open Space; Acceptability: No open space may be accepted as
common, useable open space unless its character and quality have been approved
by the Planning Commission. In making such determinations, the Planning
Commission shall give consideration to topography and existing amenities of the
open area including trees and other natural features, and the manner in which
open area including trees and other natural features, is to be improved and
maintained.
         (e)   Open Space Conveyance And Maintenance:
            (1)   All land shown on the final development plan as common open
space must be conveyed under one of the following options:
   A.   It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to maintain the
common open space and any buildings, structures, or improvements which have
been placed on it.
   B.   It may be conveyed to trustees provided in a declaration of covenants
recorded against the property establishing a property owners association or
similar organization for the maintenance of common open space within the
planned development. The common open space must be conveyed to the trustees
subject to the covenants to be approved by the Planning Commission which
restrict the common open space to the uses specified on the final development
plan, and which provide for the maintenance of the common open space in a
manner which assures its continuing use for its intended purpose.
            (2)   No common open space may be put to any use not specified in
the final development plan unless the final development plan has been amended
to permit that use as provided herein. However, no change of use authorized
under amendments of the plan may be considered as a waiver of any of the
covenants limiting the use of common open space areas. All rights to enforce
these covenants against any use permitted under further amendment of the plan
are expressly reserved.
            (3)   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency,
either one of the following methods of enforcement must be provided:
   A.   The legal right to develop the common open space for the uses specified
in the final development plan must be conveyed to a public agency.
   B.   The restrictions governing the use, improvement, and maintenance of the
common open space must be stated as conditions to the conveyance of the common
open space. The fee title to the common open space shall be vested in a public
agency in the event of a substantial default in the stated conditions.
   C.   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency, the
covenants governing the use, improvement, and maintenance of the common open
space may authorize a public agency to enforce their provisions.
      7.   Incentives: To encourage excellence in design the following
incentives may be approved by the Planning Commission, and shall be totaled to
yield an allowed percentage increase over the base density specified by the
zoning district(s) in which the property is located:
         (a)   Landscape Buffer: One-half (.05%) percent for each twenty (20')
feet in width (excluding set back requirements as hereinafter set forth), not
to exceed three (3%) percent on all peripheral lot lines with a less restricted
use.
         (b)   Landscaping: For excellence in quality and quantity of tree and
shrub landscaping beyond the requirements of Chapter 14 of this Title,
including peripheral and interior screen planting and fencing, a bonus of up to
one (1%) percent will be allowed.
         (c)   Swimming Pool: One (1%) percent for each pool not to exceed two
(2%) percent.
         (d)   Tennis Courts: One-half (.05%) percent for each tennis court not
to exceed two (2%) percent.
         (e)   Community Center And/Or Club Building: Up to two (2%) percent
for a community center and/or club building.
         (f)   Municipal Facility: Up to two (2%) percent for land donations
for a municipal facility and up to five (5%) percent for donations of land and
structure(s).
      8.   Completion Of Recreational Facilities:
         (a)   Construction of recreational facilities serving a Planned Unit
Development shall commence prior to the completion of not more than forty
percent (40%) of the dwelling units in the development and be completed prior
to the issuance of building permits for the last forty percent (40%) of the
units in a single phase Planned Unit Development.
         (b)   In Planned Unit Developments containing two (2) or more phases,
construction of recreational facilities shall be completed prior to the
issuance of occupancy permits for the second phase of the Planned Unit
Development.
      9.   Private Streets: Street construction, regardless of ownership, shall
be made in conformance with Chapter 11 of Title 3 of the Dixon City Code
(Subdivision Regulations).
   (K)   Business And Manufacturing Planned Unit Development Standards: In
addition to the foregoing standards, the following specific requirements will
apply to business and manufacturing Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   Allowable Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage by building(s) is
thirty percent (30%).
      2.   Circulation: All commercial buildings shall have access on internal
or frontage roads. The road system must give consideration to properties beyond
the Planned Unit Development.
      3.   Landscaping, Screening, Visual Enhancement: Landscape treatments
throughout the Planned Unit Development will be an essential consideration. The
landscaping and buffering standards in Chapter 14 shall be considered minimum
requirements, except as may be modified with approval of the City Council.
      4.   Signs: Signs shall be required to be in a manner which is a
harmonious treatment throughout the development and in relation to other
adjacent or nearby properties. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2630, 4-16-2007)
6-12-3: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT:
   (A)   The construction and maintenance of all public facilities and
improvements which are a part of the Planned Unit Development shall be
guaranteed by letters of credit in the same procedure as provided in Chapter 11
of Title 3 of the Dixon City Code (Subdivision Regulations).
   (B)   A final plat suitable for recording, containing all information shown
on the final development plan and additional final plat requirements as
required under Chapter 11 of Title 3 (Subdivision Regulations), including all
required certifications and covenants shall be provided. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 13
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES AND
SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
PART A:   PROCEDURES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
6-13-1: Notice of Public Hearing
6-13-2: Fees
PART B:   SITE PLAN REVIEW
Part 1:      General Requirements
6-13-3: Applicability
6-13-4: Development and Uses Requiring a Site Plan
6-13-5: Exceptions and Waivers
6-13-6: Procedure for Preparation of Site Plans
6-13-7: Required Information on Site Plans
6-13-8: Procedure for Review of Site Plans
6-13-9: Agreement, Bond and Fees
6-13-10: Approval and Revisions
Part 2:      Required Improvements
6-13-11: Improvements to Be Provided on Site Plans
PART C:   SPECIAL USES
6-13-12: Purpose
6-13-13: Procedures
6-13-14: Criteria for Evaluation of Special Uses
6-13-15: Special Use Conditions
6-13-16: Effect of Approval or Denial
6-13-17: Revocation of Special Use
6-13-18: Approved Special Uses
PART D:   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
6-13-19: Jurisdiction
6-13-20: Coordination with Subdivision Regulations
6-13-21: Planned Unit Development Procedure
6-13-22: Changes to Approved Planned Unit Developments
PART E:   TEXT AMENDMENTS AND REZONING
6-13-23: Purpose
6-13-24: Petition for Amendment
6-13-25: Filing of Applications
6-13-26: Review of Petition
6-13-27: Written Protest
6-13-28: Factors for Reviewing Proposed Amendments
6-13-29: Final Decision
6-13-30: Effect of Denial
PART F:   SIGN PERMITS
6-13-31: Applicability and Approval Procedures
PART G:   BUILDING PERMITS
6-13-32: Issuance of Building Permit
PART H:   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
6-13-33: Certificate of Compliance
PART I:   ZONING PERMITS
6-13-34: Zoning Permits
PART J:   VARIATIONS
6-13-35: Purpose and Scope
6-13-36: Filing of Petitions; Determination of Completeness
6-13-37: Staff Review
6-13-38: Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
6-13-39: Standards of Review
6-13-40: Jurisdiction
6-13-41: Action by the City Council; Conditions
6-13-42: Effect of Approval or Denial
6-13-43: Change of Zoning
PART K:   ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
6-13-44: Appeals and Review
6-13-45: Stay of Proceedings
PART A:   PROCEDURES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
6-13-1: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
Notice of the public hearing of the Plan Commission to consider a petitioner's
application for any public hearing required by this Chapter shall be given in
the following manner:
   (A)   The petitioner shall publish notice of the date, time, place, and
purpose of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the City
not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date. Said notice shall contain:
      1.   The common address and the legal description of the subject
property;
      2.   A brief statement describing the proposal;
      3.   The current zoning classification of the subject property;
      4.   The proposed zoning classification for the subject property, if
appropriate;
      5.   The sections of the City Code under which the proposal is allowed.
   (B)   Proof of publication must be provided prior to or at the time of the
Plan Commission hearing by submitting to the secretary of the Plan Commission a
certificate of publication issued by the newspaper publishing said notice.
   (C)   Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the hearing, the petitioner shall also notify all legal owners of record of
all properties located within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary lines of
the subject property, excluding rights-of-way, streets and alleys. This notice
shall be given as follows:
      1.   By delivering notice to the record owner personally; or
      2.   By depositing the notice in the United States mail, enclosed in an
envelope, plainly addressed to the legal record owner at his residence,
certified mail, return receipt requested, with postage fully prepaid;
      3.   Matter of Proof. Proof of service of the notice required under this
subsection (B) shall be given as follows:
         (a)   In case of service by personal delivery:
            (1)   By written acknowledgment signed by the person personally
served; or
            (2)   By an affidavit of service of the person who made the
delivery.
         (b)   In case of service by mail, by certified receipt.
      4.   Proof of service of notice under this subsection (C) must be filed
with the Secretary of the Plan Commission prior to or at the time of hearing of
the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Findings of Fact: In deliberating on a zoning petition involving a
zoning amendment or special use permit, the Plan Commission shall consider the
criteria below and make the following findings:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The consistency of the proposal with the intent
and actual text, maps and drawings of the City of Dixon Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Existing Uses and Zoning: The existing uses and zoning district
classification of nearby property.
      3.   Suitability: The suitability of the property to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning district classification.
      4.   Development Conditions: The length of time the property has been
vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the vicinity
of the subject property.
      5.   Development Trends: That there are changed or changing conditions in
the vicinity of the subject property, or in the City generally, that make the
proposal reasonable and necessary to the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals or general welfare.
      6.   Adequate Public Facilities: Whether adequate public facilities
including, but not limited to, schools, parks, police and fire protection,
roads, sanitary and storm sewers, water lines exist or can be provided prior to
the development of the proposed use(s).
      7.   Impact On Other Property. It shall not substantially lessen or
impede the suitability for the permitted use and development of, or be
injurious to the use and enjoyment of, or substantially diminish or impair the
value of, or be incompatible with other property in the immediate vicinity.
   (E)   Review Process:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall submit its recommendation and Findings of
Fact to the City Council within forty-five (45) days of the close of the public
hearing.
      2.   The City Council can approve or deny the application, or refer the
application back to the Plan Commission for further consideration. If the
application is given City Council approval, the City Council will direct an
ordinance(s) to be drafted and will then act to approve the appropriate
ordinance(s).
      3.   Any proposal which fails to receive the approval of a majority of
the Plan Commission members, and is so reported, shall not be passed by the
City Council except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all the
elected members of the City Council.
   (F)   Denial Of Proposal: No application for an amendment, special use
permit, or variation which has been denied by the City Council shall be
resubmitted for a period of one (1) year from the date of such denial, except
on grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by
the Plan Commission.
   (G)   Joint Submission And Consideration Of Different Requests For
Development Approval: Where two (2) or more types of approval set forth in this
Chapter are being sought in order to accommodate a proposed development, the
applications required for each type of approval shall be filed in conjunction
with each other and shall be reviewed by the City as a single, consolidated
application for development approval. The public hearings required for each
type of approval shall be combined into a single public hearing. Where this
Chapter places responsibility for conducting the public hearings for the
different types of approval requested in the hands of different governing
bodies, the Building Official shall determine which one body shall conduct the
hearing. Similarly, the public notices required for each type of approval shall
be combined into a single set of published and personal notices, with the
notices identifying each type of approval being considered at the public
hearing. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-2: FEES:
The fees for the various types of development petitions covered under this
Chapter shall be determined by action of the City Council from time to time.
Such fee shall be paid to the Building Official, who shall give a receipt
therefor and account for same at regular intervals to the City Council. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
PART B:   SITE PLAN REVIEW
PART 1:   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
6-13-3: APPLICABILITY:
Site plans, prepared and approved in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, shall be required to assist City administrative officials in the
review of certain applications for Building Permits and Special Use Permits,
and to assure compliance with all applicable requirements of this Title. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-4: DEVELOPMENTS AND USES REQUIRING A SITE PLAN:
   (A)   All permitted uses in residential zoning districts, except the
following:
      1.   Single family detached dwellings, duplex dwellings, and their
related accessory uses and structures.
      2.   Agricultural structures.
      3.   Privately-owned dwellings for seasonal occupancy.
   (B)   All permitted uses in business zoning districts.
   (C)   All permitted uses in manufacturing zoning districts.
   (D)   When an alteration or amendment is proposed to the site improvements
or design of a previously approved site plan.
   (E)   All special permit uses which require a site plan as determined by the
Building Official.
   (F)   When an existing residential use is proposed for a change to a
commercial, industrial, or multi-family residential use.
   (G)   All public buildings and institutions.
   (H)   All other uses, and changes from existing uses, for which a site plan
is required pursuant to the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-5: EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVERS:
   (A)   No formal site plan shall be required for the following uses:
      1.   Additions to existing buildings or uses when such addition does not
exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet or one-third (1/3) of the gross floor
area of the existing building or use, whichever is greater.
      2.   Any permitted use on a temporary basis for a period not to exceed
six (6) months.
      3.   School uses located in existing church facilities. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997)
6-13-6: PROCEDURE FOR PREPARATION OF SITE PLANS:
   (A)   Site plans or any portion thereof involving engineering, architecture,
or land surveying shall be respectively certified by an engineer, architect, or
land surveyor authorized by the State of Illinois to practice as such.
   (B)   Site plans shall be prepared to a scale of one inch equals twenty feet
(1" = 20') or larger.
   (C)   A site plan may be prepared in one (1) or more sheets to show clearly
the information required by this Section and to facilitate the review and
approval of the plan. If prepared on more than one (1) sheet, match lines shall
clearly indicate where the several sheets join. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-7: REQUIRED INFORMATION ON SITE PLANS:
   (A)   All site plans shall be submitted to the Building Official. When the
applicant is seeking a zoning amendment, a special use permit, or a variation
(other than a variation of the requirements set forth in Section
6-13-7 and/or Chapter 14), the applicant shall submit twenty-one (21) clearly
legible blue or black line copies. Each site plan shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk evidencing the payment of all required site plan
fees for processing and approval as set by the City Council from time to time.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Building Official, a site plan shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Location of tract by an insert map at a scale of not less than one
inch equals two thousand feet (1" = 2000'), indicating such information as the
names and numbers of adjoining roads, streams and bodies of water, railroads,
subdivisions, towns, or other landmarks sufficient to clearly identify the
location of the property.
      2.   The name and address of the owner and developer, the north point,
date and scale of drawing and number of sheets.
      3.   All existing and proposed streets and easements, their names,
numbers and widths; existing and proposed utilities; watercourses and their
names; owners, zoning and present use of all adjoining properties.
      4.   A landscape plan, including dimensions and distances and the
location, size and description of all proposed landscape materials as required
by the provisions of Chapter 14.
      5.   Existing vegetation, proposed removal of vegetation, and proposed
replacement of vegetation in accordance with the regulations of this Chapter.
      6.   Location, type, size and height of fencing, retaining walls and
screen planting as required by the provisions of this Chapter 14.
      7.   All off-street parking, related driveways; loading spaces and
walkways, indicating type of surfacing, size, angle of stalls, width of aisles
and a specific schedule showing the number of parking spaces provided and the
number required by the provisions of Chapter 7.
      8.   The proposed location, general use, number of floors, height and the
net and gross floor area for each building, including outside display areas,
and, where applicable, the proposed floor area ratio, the number, size and type
of dwelling units.
      9.   When connection is to be made to the City utility system, all
existing and proposed water and sanitary sewer facilities, indicating all pipe
sizes, types and grades and where connection is to be made to the City utility
system.
      10.   When improvements will result in an increase of storm water run-
off, provisions for the adequate disposition of storm water in accordance with
Section
7-1-10 of the City Code, indicating the location, size, type and grade of
ditches, catch basins and pipes and connections to existing drainage system,
and on-site storm water retention.
   (B)   If reasonably necessary to evaluate the project, the Building Official
also may require that a site plan contain the following information:
      1.   A boundary survey of the property.
      2.   Sufficient information to show how the physical improvements
associated with the proposed development interrelate with existing or proposed
development of record on adjacent properties.
      3.   Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of two feet
(2'), except where existing ground is on a slope of less than two percent (2%)
where one foot (1') contours shall be shown.
      4.   Proposed finished grading contours.
      5.   For development in areas with severe building limitations, a soil
report prepared by or under the direction of a professional engineer
experienced in soil and foundation engineering.
   (C)   The Building Official may waive any or all of the requirements of this
Section. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975, 1-6-1997)
6-13-8: PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF SITE PLANS:
   (A)   The Building Official shall check the site plan for general
completeness and shall see that all administrative reviews are completed on
time, and that any action that is necessary is taken by the Plan Commission on
the site plan within sixty (60) days from the receipt thereof, except under
abnormal circumstances.
   (B)   Site Plan Review Conference: Prior to any necessary review by the Plan
Commission, and after receiving a complete application, the Building Official
shall set a date for a site plan review conference with the applicant, at which
the chief administrator of each City department will be invited. The purpose of
the site plan review conference is to provide the applicant with the results of
City staff's preliminary review of his/her proposal and to identify ways in
which the proposed site plan complies or does not comply with the requirements
of this Chapter 13 relative to:
      1.   Location and design of vehicular and pedestrian access points, to
include notification from the Illinois Department of Transportation authorizing
proposed entrances and exits from State routes.
      2.   Location and adequacy of off-street parking and loading areas.
      3.   Design of traffic circulation and control within the site and in
relationship to adjoining properties.
      4.   Adequacy of drainage, water supply, fire protection and sanitary
sewer facilities.
      5.   Compliance with applicable established design criteria, construction
standards and specifications for all improvements required by the City Code of
Dixon.
      6.   Provision of adequate erosion and sedimentation control measures of
both a temporary and permanent nature.
      7.   Compliance with all of the other applicable requirements of this
Title.
   (C)   All site plans, which are appropriately submitted and conform to the
standards and requirements set forth in this Chapter 13 and Chapter 14, may be
approved solely by the Building Official. Any decision of the Building Official
may be appealed to the Plan Commission pursuant to same procedures as required
for a text amendment or zoning district change as set forth in Part E of this
Chapter.
   (D)   All site plans that do not accompany an application for an amendment
or a special use permit or that seek a variation only of one or more of the
requirements set forth in Section
6-13-7 and/or Chapter 14 may be approved solely by the Building Official
without referral to the Plan Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals. Any
decision of the Building Official is appealable to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2274, 10-2-2000)
6-13-9: AGREEMENT, BOND AND FEES:
   (A)   Prior to approval of any site plan there shall be executed by the
owner or developer and submitted with the site plan an agreement to construct
such required physical improvements as are: (a) located within public rights-
of-way or easements, or (b) as are connected to any public facility as approved
by the City. Such agreement shall be accompanied by a letter of credit, bond or
other surety acceptable to the City in the amount of the estimated cost of the
required physical improvements as approved by the Building Official.
   (B)   The agreement and surety shall be provided for guaranteeing completion
of all work covered thereby within the time to be approved by the Building
Official, which time may be extended by the City Council upon written
application by the owner or developer. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-10: APPROVAL AND REVISIONS:
   (A)   Approval of a site plan submitted under the provisions of this Chapter
is valid for a maximum duration of one (1) year, unless a building permit(s)
has been obtained for construction in accordance therewith, in which case the
site plan approval, or part thereof for which a building permit is obtained, is
extended for the life of the building permit.
   (B)   Any approved site plan may be revised prior to final acceptance and
release of surety in the same manner as originally approved, provided that
approval of a site plan revision shall not be deemed to alter the expiration
date of the site plan, as established in Paragraph A above.
   (C)   Following release of surety provided in accordance with Section
6-13-9 above, any proposed change to a use requiring site plan approval shall
require the submission of a new site plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART 2:   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
6-13-11: IMPROVEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED ON SITE PLANS:
In furtherance of the purposes of this Title and to assure the public safety
and general welfare, no site plan shall be approved unless the Building
Official is assured that the following improvements will be made:
   (A)   Construction of pedestrian walkways so that occupants/patrons may walk
on the same from building to building or store to store within the site and to
adjacent sites. Wherever possible, connection shall be made to walkways in
adjacent developments.
   (B)   Construction of trails or walkways in accordance with the general
location shown on the adopted comprehensive plan together with such other
connecting trails or walkways within the limits of the site plan. When such
trails or walkways are to be constructed, fee title or easements shall be
conveyed to the City of Dixon or Dixon Park District. The final location and
design of trails or walkways is to be determined by the Plan Commission upon
recommendation by the Building Official.
   (C)   Construction of vehicular travel lanes, service drives, driveways or
other access connections, which will permit vehicular travel on the site and to
and from adjacent properties in accordance with the following:
      1.   Adjacent to any primary highway, and generally parallel thereto, a
service drive shall be constructed, and wherever possible, it shall connect
with a service drive on adjacent properties.
      2.   Adjacent to any major or minor arterial street a travel lane not
less than twenty-two (22') feet in width shall be constructed to afford access
to adjoining properties.
      3.   The Building Official may waive the requirement for constructing a
travel lane as is set forth in Paragraph 2 above when:
         (a)   There is no existing or proposed vehicular travel lane abutting
the subject property on either side, and
         (b)   The adjoining property(s) is used or zoned for single family
detached dwellings, or
         (c)   The adjoining property(s) is occupied by a given use, which by
its nature would suggest that there will be a limited desire for travel between
such use and the one proposed.
   (D)   Dedication and construction of widening for existing roads, existing
roads on new alignments, and proposed roads, all as indicated on the adopted
comprehensive plan or as may be required by the Plan Commission upon
recommendation of the Building Official.
   (E)   Construction of curb and gutter around all medians that separate
travel lanes and service drives from existing streets and which separate off-
street parking areas from streets, service drives, and travel lanes.
   (F)   Dedication of easements or rights-of-way for all facilities to be
publicly maintained. Such easement or right-of-way shall be clearly defined for
the purposes intended.
   (G)   Installation of an adequate drainage system for the disposition of
storm water.
   (H)   Installation of erosion and sedimentation control measures.
   (I)   All utilities provided by the developer shall be installed underground
provided, however, that:
      1.   Equipment such as the electric distribution transformers,
switchgear, meter pedestals and telephone pedestals, which are normally
installed above ground, may continue to be so installed, in accordance with
accepted utility practices for underground distribution;
      2.   Meters, service connections and similar equipment normally attached
to the outside wall of the premises they serve may be so installed;
      3.   Temporary overhead facilities required for construction purposes
shall be permitted;
   (J)   Vegetation removal and replacement in conformance with the
requirements of Chapter 14.
   (K)   All other improvements required by the provisions of this Title. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
PART C:   SPECIAL USES
6-13-12: PURPOSE:
The principle objective of this Title is to provide for an orderly arrangement
of compatible building and land uses, and for the proper location of all types
of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the City. To accomplish
this objective, each type and kind of use is classified as permitted in one or
more of the various districts established by this Title. However, in addition
to those uses specifically classified and permitted in each district, there are
certain additional uses which it may be necessary to allow because of their
unusual characteristics or the service they provide the public. These "special
uses" require particular consideration as to their proper location in relation
to adjacent established or intended uses, or to the planned development of the
community. The conditions controlling the location and operation of the
"special uses" are established by this Part C and Part B of Chapter 13, and
Chapter 14. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-13: PROCEDURES:
For purposes of this Chapter 13, a petition for approval of a special use shall
follow the same procedures as required for a text amendment or zoning district
change as outlined in Part E of this Chapter 13. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-14: CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION OF SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   General Standards: A special use permit shall be granted only if the
Plan Commission finds the application has demonstrated that the proposed use
complies with the following general standards:
      1.   Each special use should be presented and judged on its own merits.
It shall not be sufficient to base justification for approval upon an already
existing special use.
      2.   The proposed use is consistent with the goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
      3.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the proposed use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the residents of the City.
      4.   The proposed use will not diminish the use or enjoyment of other
property in the vicinity for those uses which are permitted by the Zoning
Ordinance of the City.
      5.   Adequate measures already exist or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress to the proposed use in a manner that minimizes traffic congestion.
      6.   The proposed use will be designed and located in a manner that is
consistent with the character of neighboring properties and/or the City as a
whole.
      7.   The proposed use will not adversely affect a known historical or
cultural resource.
      8.   The proposed use has made adequate provisions for buffers,
landscaping, fencing, lighting, building materials, public open space and other
improvements necessary to insure that the proposed use does not adversely
impact adjacent uses and is compatible with the surrounding area and/or City as
a whole.
      9.   The design and location of the proposed use promotes a safe and
comfortable pedestrian environment.
      10.   The off-site impacts of the proposed use, such as traffic, noise,
hours of operation and visual impacts, have been shown to be compatible with
the surrounding area.
      11.   The proposed use will comply with the requirements of the City of
Dixon Subdivision Ordinance. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-15: SPECIAL USE CONDITIONS:
   (A)   General Conditions: After reviewing an application for a special use
permit and considering the unique features of the specific special use
proposal, the Plan Commission may recommend, and the City Council may require,
such additional conditions upon the construction, location and operation of the
special use as shall be deemed necessary to insure that the special use will
meet the standards for special uses set forth in Part C and B of this Chapter
13 and the landscaping and tree preservation regulations of Chapter 14.
   (B)   Booklet Of Typical Conditions:
      1.   The Building Official shall cause to be prepared, as an
administrative document, a booklet containing a list of conditions typically
associated with each special use permitted by this Chapter. Said booklet shall
be periodically reviewed jointly by the Plan Commission and the Building
Official for the purpose of updating and modifying the booklet. A copy of the
booklet setting forth the appropriate list of conditions shall be available to
each applicant for a special use and to members of the general public.
      2.   The booklet of typical conditions shall serve as a guideline for the
conditions, if any, ultimately recommended by the Plan Commission to the City
Council in conjunction with a recommended special use permit. The Plan
Commission may include those conditions specified in the booklet that it feels
are appropriate to the specific application for a special use permit or may
supplement other appropriate conditions. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-16: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Approval of the application by the City Council authorizes the
applicant to proceed with any necessary applications for building permits,
certificates of occupancy, and other permits which the City may require for the
proposed development. The Building Official shall review applications for these
permits for compliance with the terms of the special use approval granted by
the City Council. No permit shall be issued for work which does not comply with
the terms of the special use approval.
   (B)   No application for a special use shall be filed with or accepted by
the Building Official which is identical or substantially similar to an
application which has been denied by the City Council within the previous
twelve (12) months.
   (C)   Each special use which is approved by the City Council either shall
attach to the property itself and run with the land, or shall lapse when the
person who received approval of the special use ceases to conduct the activity
for which the special use approval was granted. All special use approvals shall
be considered personal to the applicant and shall lapse when the person who
received the approval ceases to conduct the special use, unless the ordinance
which approves the special use provides that the special use approval shall run
with the land.
   (D)   Any discontinuation of an approved special use for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days shall constitute abandonment and shall
rescind the approval of the special use. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-17: REVOCATION OF SPECIAL USE:
Any special use granted under this Chapter may be revoked by the City Council
after a finding of the existence of any one of the conditions, or of the
occurrence of any one of the following events:
   (A)   No Construction: Construction authorized or required as a condition to
the granting of the special use is not initiated within six (6) months of the
granting of the special use.
   (B)   Ceased Operation: The operation of the use for which a special use has
been issued ceases for a continuous period of six (6) months.
   (C)   Licenses And Permits: The governmental licenses or permits required
for the operation or maintenance of said special use are not obtained or are
subsequently terminated.
   (D)   Requirements And Regulations: Any of the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance, or any conditions specifically designated for said special use are
violated. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-18: APPROVED SPECIAL USES:
All special uses permitted or granted by the City Council are listed in
Appendix C and are on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART D:   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
6-13-19: JURISDICTION:
Wherever any proposed "Planned Unit Development" shall hereafter be proposed
within the City or within contiguous territory and not more than one and one-
half (1 ½) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the City, the applicant
thereof or his agent shall submit a Planned Unit Development application form
to the City. The plan and all proposed improvements shall also comply with the
regulations of Part A of Chapter 12, and all procedures hereinafter contained
in this Part D of Chapter 13. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-20: COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   It is the intent of this Part D that applicable subdivision review
procedures and standards under the subdivision regulations of Title 3, Chapter
11, be carried out simultaneously with the review of a Planned Unit
Development.
   (B)   The plans required under the Planned Unit Development regulations of
Chapter 12, Part A must be submitted in a form which will satisfy the
requirements of the subdivision regulations for preliminary plans and final
plats as required under those regulations. It is the intent of this section to
permit the submission of subdivision applications for the whole, a part, or
parts of the overall planned unit development as indicated by phases in the
site development plan.
   If any provisions of this section and the subdivision regulations are in
conflict, the more restrictive or detailed requirements shall be met, unless
specifically waived or altered by the City Council upon recommendation of the
Plan Commission. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-21: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Procedure: The procedure for securing a planned unit development shall
follow the same basic procedure for public hearings outlined in Part A of this
Chapter, with the addition that the application shall be processed in the
stages as follows:
   (B)   Pre-Application Conference: Prior to preparation of a formal
application, the applicant at his option may meet with the Planning Commission
to obtain information and guidance before entering into binding commitments or
incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans, surveys and other
data. The Planning Commission may avail themselves of any technical
engineering, architectural, or planning advice in informing the applicant.
   (C)   Preliminary Application Submission: The applicant for a Planned Unit
Development shall submit an application, and five (5) copies of a preliminary
development plan, and an application fee established by the City Council from
time to time.
The preliminary development plan shall contain the following material:
      1.   The name and address of all owners of the site proposed for
development as well as the name and address of all professional site planners,
architects, engineers, surveyors or other consultants;
      2.   A legal description of the site proposed for development;
      3.   A general area plan drawing reflecting the intended use and future
street locations for adjacent areas within the site when the proposed Planned
Unit Development is intended to be developed in more than one phase;
      4.   The location of all property lines, existing streets, easements,
utilities and any other significant physical features;
      5.   Date, north arrow and graphic scale (not less than one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') of all drawings submitted;
      6.   Present zoning;
      7.   An indication of the existing conditions on the tract including
contour lines (two foot (2') intervals), water courses and existing drainage
facilities, wooded areas and isolated trees of six inches (6") or more in
diameter, if any, existing streets, sidewalks or other improvements, and
existing buildings and structures with an indication of those which will be
removed and those which will be retained as part of the development;
      8.   A description of the area surrounding the site showing land use,
streets, peculiar physical or natural features, public facilities and existing
zoning;
      9.   A site plan of the proposed development indicating the general
location of the following:
         (a)   All buildings, structures and other improvements;
         (b)   Common open space (for developments with residential use);
         (c)   Off-street parking facilities and number of spaces to be
provided;
         (d)   Sidewalks;
         (e)   Use of open space being provided;
         (f)   Screening or buffering of the development perimeters;
         (g)   Indication as to which areas and streets are intended to be
public;
         (h)   All utilities including storm drainage, sanitary sewers and
water service;
   (I)   Such other documents explaining other circumstances as the Planning
Commission may require.
      10.   Quantitative data indicating the following:
         (a)   Total number of dwelling units (if applicable)
         (b)   Total lot coverage of buildings and structures (percent of
total);
         (c)   Total impervious surface coverage of all building and
structures, driveways, roads, sidewalks, patios and other non-porous surfaces
(percent of total);
         (d)   Approximate gross and net residential densities, excluding all
streets and roadways (if applicable);
         (e)   Total amount of usable open space area provided in the tract;
         (f)   Such other calculations as the Planning Commission may require.
      11.   Elevation or perspective drawings of all buildings and improvements
sufficient to show the developer's intent;
      12.   A development schedule indicating (a) the approximate date when
construction of the project will begin; (b) the stages in which the project
will be built and the approximate date when construction of each stage will
begin; (c) the approximate dates when the development of each of the stages
will be completed; and (d) the area and location of common open space that will
be provided at each stage;
      13.   If the applicant intends to sell or lease all or a portion of the
Planned Unit Development after the project is approved, a statement shall be
presented to the Commission. If applicable, the conditions of sale and
maintenance of such developed properties shall be stipulated. Any covenants,
deed restrictions or other similar agreements between the applicant and future
owners shall be presented.
   (D)   Preliminary Application Hearing: Upon receipt of the Planned Unit
Development preliminary application, the required documents and the payment of
fees, the Planning Commission shall fix a time for a public hearing on the
Planned Unit Development and give notice of the hearing in the manner and for
the length of time prescribed in Part A of this Chapter 13.
Such hearing may be continued for purposes of revising the submitted plan.
Within thirty (30) days after the completion of the hearing, the Planning
Commission shall then forward its findings and recommendations on the
preliminary plan to the City Council.
   (E)   City Council Action on Preliminary Application: Approval of the
preliminary plan by the City Council shall constitute approval of the general
arrangement of the plan, the provisions submitted by the applicant, and a
waiver of only those items of policy or ordinance which have been brought
specifically to the attention of the Planning Commission. Such approval shall
be valid for one (1) year. In its discretion and for good cause, the City
Council may extend for an additional six (6) months, the approval of the
preliminary plan. Approval of the preliminary plan shall vest no rights to the
applicants other than to be able to submit a final development plan.
   (F)   Final Application Submission: Within one (1) year of preliminary plan
approval by the City Council, the applicant shall file a final development
plan. Five (5) copies of the final development plan shall be filed with the
City. Such submission shall be accompanied by a second fee in equal amount to
that required for a zoning amendment.
The final development plan shall include the following:
      1.   All of the material required in submission of the preliminary
subdivision plan;
      2.   Designation of location of all proposed structures and the internal
uses in sufficient detail to determine off-street parking requirements;
      3.   Architectural elevations, pavement types, culverts, sidewalks,
illumination, landscaping and common open space and recreation facilities.
      4.   Certificates, seal and signatures required for the dedication of
land, recording the documents, and such other legal documents as may be
required by the Subdivision Ordinance;
      5.   Accurate tabulations on the use of the area including land area,
number of buildings, number of dwelling units per acre (if applicable), total
common open space, percentage of building coverage of the total area,
percentage of paved area and total number of parking spaces provided;
      6.   All curb cuts, driving lanes, parking and loading areas, public
transportation points, street signs and illuminated facilities for same;
      7.   Any other plans or specifications that may be necessary for final
engineering approval of drainage, street design and other facilities by the
City Engineer or Planning Commission.
Upon receipt of the final Planned Unit Development plan, the Planning
Commission shall review the submitted documents and ascertain whether or not
the final plans substantially conform to the approved preliminary development
plan and the provisions of this Chapter 13, and Chapter 12. Upon review and
approval of the final development plan the Planning Commission shall forward to
the City Council, along with the Planning Commission's recommendation, the
final plan and any other necessary supporting information.
   (G)   City Council Action on Final Application: Upon approval of the final
development plan by a majority vote of the City Council, the City Council shall
adopt an ordinance granting the applicant a special use permit in the nature of
a planned unit development. The City Clerk shall deliver for recording all
ordinances, dedications, covenants and such other documents as may be required
by the City.
   (H)   Performance Schedule: The applicant shall conform to the development
schedule as required herein. If no construction has begun or no approved use
established in the Planned Unit Development within one (1) year from the
approval of the final development plan by the City Council, the approval of the
final development plan shall lapse and be voided and no longer in effect.
In its discretion and for good cause, the City Council may extend for one
additional year the period for the beginning of construction, the establishment
of an approved use, or completion of a phase of development as indicated in the
development schedule. If a final development plan lapses under the provisions
of this Section the Building Official shall notify the applicant of the
revocation of approval of the Planned Unit Development ordinance. (Ord. 1973,
1-6-1997)
6-13-22: CHANGES TO APPROVED PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   Minor changes in the location, siting and height of buildings and
structures may be authorized by the Planning Commission without additional
public hearing if required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen
at the time the final plan was approved. No change authorized by this
subsection may cause any of the following:
      1.   A change in the use of character of the development;
      2.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall coverage of
structures;
      3.   An increase in the density or intensity of use;
      4.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space;
      5.   A reduction of off-street parking and loading spaces;
   (B)   Minor changes approved by the Planning Commission or changes involving
rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts must be approved by City
Council. Such changes must be recorded as amendments to the planned unit
development ordinance in accordance with the same procedure as required for the
initial final plan approval. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART E:   TEXT AMENDMENTS AND REZONINGS
6-13-23: PURPOSE:
The text of this Title and the Zoning District Map may be amended from time to
time in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in this Part.
The purpose of this Part is to provide a means for amending the text of this
Title or changing the classification of any land identified on the Official
Zoning Map. The purpose is not to relieve particular hardships, nor to confer
special privileges or rights on any person, but only to make adjustments to the
text of this Title and to the Official Zoning Map that are necessary in light
of changed conditions or changes in public policy, to implement the
recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan, or that are necessary to advance the
general welfare of the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-24: PETITION FOR AMENDMENT:
   (A)   An amendment to the text of this Title may be initiated only by the
City Council, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Plan Commission, any owner of a
legal or equitable interest in land located in the City, or any resident of the
City.
   (B)   An amendment to the Zoning District Map (or "rezoning") may be
initiated only by the City Council, the Plan Commission, the owner of the
property affected by the proposed amendment, an agent, lessee, or contract
purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such application, or any
unit of government which is not the owner of the lot but proposes to acquire
the lot by purchase, gift, or condemnation. Where an agent, lessee, or contract
purchaser files the application, the agent, lessee, or contract purchaser shall
provide the City with written documentation that the owner of the property has
authorized the filing of the application.
   (C)   The petitioner shall deposit a filing fee as established by the City
Council, which fee shall be deposited with the Treasurer within fifteen (15)
days after the receipt thereof. No part of the fee shall be returnable to the
petitioner. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-25: FILING OF APPLICATIONS:
Where an amendment to the text of this Title or to the Zoning District Map is
proposed by someone other than the Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or
City Council, an application requesting the amendment shall be filed with the
Building Official. The application shall be accompanied by a written statement
from the applicant stating the basis for the request and, where the amendment
will rezone land, identifying with the affected property. Any application to
rezone property also shall be accompanied by a written statement and site plan
illustrating the overall plan for development or redevelopment of the affected
property, and how such new development relates to adjacent land uses and
maintains the character of the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-26: REVIEW OF PETITION:
The regulations imposed and the zoning districts created under this Title may
be amended by ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made by the City
Council without public notice and without a public hearing before the Plan
Commission. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-27: WRITTEN PROTEST:
In the event written protest against the proposed amendment signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across the alley or rear line therefrom, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage
proposed to be altered as to such regulations or zoning district, is filed with
the City Clerk such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote
of two thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the City Council. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997; amd. Ord. 2013, 9-2-1997)
6-13-28: FACTORS FOR REVIEWING PROPOSED AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   In deciding whether to adopt a proposed amendment, the reviewing body
shall consider whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan. In particular, where rezoning property, the
reviewing body shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Is the requested change compatible with the existing development
pattern and the zoning of nearby properties?
      2.   Has there been a change in the circumstances upon which the original
zoning designation was based?
      3.   Have major land uses or conditions changed since the zoning was
established?
      4.   Does the current zoning or the proposed zoning better conform to the
current Comprehensive Plan?
      5.   Does the proposed use satisfy a public need?
      6.   Is the subject property physically suitable for the zoned purpose
and/or the proposed use and purpose?
      7.   Are there sites for the proposed use in existing districts
permitting such use?
      8.   Does the present development of the area comply with existing
ordinances?
      9.   Does the existing zoning impose an unreasonable hardship?
      10.   Can a reasonable economic benefit be realized from uses in
accordance with the existing zoning?
      11.   Will property values in the vicinity be affected?
      12.   Will the proposed change deter the use of adjacent properties under
the existing zoning?
      13.   Can the proposed change contribute to the redevelopment of a
deteriorated area?
      14.   Will the proposed change conflict with existing or planned public
improvements?
      15.   Will the proposed change adversely affect traffic patterns or
congestion?
      16.   Will the proposed change adversely impact population density such
that the demand for schools, sewers, streets, recreational areas and
facilities, and other public facilities are adversely affected?
      17.   Will the proposed change have an adverse environmental impact on
the vicinity?
      18.   Will the proposed change adversely affect the health, safety,
morals and welfare of the neighborhood?
      19.   Will the proposed change adversely affect the health, safety,
morals and welfare of the City as a whole? (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-29: FINAL DECISION:
The City Council, without further public hearing, may adopt or deny the report
of the Plan Commission for any proposed amendment, or may refer the petition
back to the Plan Commission for further consideration. Any proposed amendment
which fails to receive the approval of a majority of the Plan Commission
members, and is so reported, shall not be passed by the City Council except by
the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the elected members of the City
Council. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2012, 9-2-1997)
6-13-30: EFFECT OF DENIAL:
No application for an amendment shall be filed with or accepted by the Building
Official which is proposed by someone other than the City Council, Plan
Commission, or Zoning Board of Appeals, and which is identical or substantially
similar to a proposed amendment which has been rejected by the City Council
within the previous twelve (12) months. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART F:   SIGN PERMITS
6-13-31: APPLICABILITY AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or
maintain within the City any sign or other advertising structure as defined in
Chapter 6, without first obtaining a sign permit from the Building Official,
and complying with the application and review procedures of Chapter 6. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
PART G:   BUILDING PERMITS
6-13-32: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT:
   (A)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally
altered until a building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector
stating that the building or structure, and use of land, comply with the
regulations of this Title and all building and health regulations of this Code.
   (B)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size of the building or structure to be erected or structurally
altered, and its location as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of
these regulations. A careful record of such applications and plats shall be
kept in the office of the Building Official. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART H:   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
6-13-33: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be occupied and used until a certificate of compliance has been issued by
the Building Inspector. The certificate of compliance shall be issued only
after the Building Inspector makes a finding that the building or structure has
been erected or structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this
Title and other health and building regulations of this Code and in accordance
with a building permit.
   (B)   Certificates of compliance shall be applied for coincident with the
application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days
after the erection and alterations of such building shall have been
satisfactorily completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in
the office of the Building Inspector and copies shall be furnished, on request,
to any person having a proprietary interest in the building affected. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
PART I:   ZONING PERMITS
6-13-34: ZONING PERMITS:
No change shall be made in the use of a building or part thereof now or
hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use of land now or
hereafter occupied, without a zoning permit having first been issued by the
Building Inspector. No such use permit shall be issued to make such change
unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this Title and amendments
thereto hereafter duly enacted. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART J:   VARIATIONS
6-13-35: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The "variation" process is intended to provide limited relief from the
requirements of this Title in those cases where strict application of those
requirements will create a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
prohibiting the use of land in a manner otherwise allowed under this Title. It
is not intended that variations be granted merely to remove inconveniences or
financial burdens that the requirements of this Title may impose on property
owners in general. Rather, it is intended to provide relief where the
requirements of this Title render the land difficult to use because of some
unique physical attribute of the property itself or some other factor unique to
the property for which the variation is requested. In no event, however, shall
the City grant a variation which would allow the establishment of a use which
is not otherwise allowed in a zoning district or which would change the zoning
district classification of any or all of the affected property. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997)
6-13-36: FILING OF PETITIONS; DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS:
   (A)   An application for a variation may be filed only by the owner of the
land affected by the variation, an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner to file such application, or any unit of
government which is not the owner of the lot but proposes to acquire the lot by
purchase, gift, or condemnation. Where an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser
files the application, the agent, lessee, or contract purchaser shall provide
the City with written documentation that the owner of the property has
authorized the filing of the application.
   (B)   An application for a variation shall be filed with the Building
Official. The application shall include a written statement by the applicant
and adequate evidence showing that the proposed variation will conform to the
standards set forth in this Part. The application shall be accompanied by such
plans, data, or both as specified in the rules of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
If the proposed variation will accommodate the construction, demolition, or
external modification of any structure then the application must be accompanied
by a site plan showing the proposed work and other site features relevant to
review of the proposed work.
   (C)   If the Building Official determines that the application is not
complete, then he or she shall notify the applicant of any deficiencies and
shall take no further steps to process the application until the deficiencies
are remedied. Once the application is complete, the Building Official shall
schedule the application for consideration at a public hearing before the
Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-37: STAFF REVIEW:
Prior to the scheduled public hearing, the Building Official shall deliver to
the Zoning Board of Appeals copies of the complete application and a written
report summarizing the facts of the case, including all relevant documents and
staff comments. The Building Official shall also send a copy of the written
report to the applicant prior to the scheduled public hearing. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-
1997)
6-13-38: ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   (A)   Upon receiving the application and report from the Building Official,
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed variation. Notice of the public hearing shall be provided and the
public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Part A of this Chapter.
   (B)   In considering the application, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
review the application, the general purpose and standards set forth in Section
6-13-39 for the granting of variations, the report of the Building Official,
and any oral and written comments received by the Zoning Board of Appeals
before or at the public hearing.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend the granting of any
variation unless there is a concurring vote of a majority of all members
present, with a minimum of four concurring votes required, based on findings of
fact that the proposed variation meets the standards set forth in this Part for
the proposed variation.
   (D)   Within a reasonable time, all findings of fact the Zoning Board of
Appeals arrived at shall be submitted with a report and recommendation to the
City Council. The recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals may specify
such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as
may be necessary to satisfy the standards set forth in Section
6-13-39 and to reduce or minimize any injurious effect of such variation upon
other property in the neighborhood.
6-13-39: STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
   (A)   A variation shall be granted only where the evidence presented in the
particular case shows that:
      1.   The particular physical conditions, shape, or surroundings of the
property would impose upon the owner a practical difficulty or particular
hardship, as opposed to a mere inconvenience, if the requirements of this
Chapter were strictly enforced; and
      2.   The plight of the property owner was not created by the owner and is
due to unique circumstances; and
      3.   The difficulty or hardship is peculiar to the property in question
and is not generally shared by other properties classified in the same zoning
district and/or used for the same purposes; and
      4.   The difficulty or hardship resulting from the application of this
Title would prevent the owner from making a reasonable use of the property;
however, the fact that the property could be utilized more profitably with the
variation than without the variation shall not be considered as grounds for
granting the variation; and
      5.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property or otherwise injure other property or its use,
will not substantially increase the danger of fire or otherwise endanger the
public health, safety, morals and welfare, and will not substantially diminish
or impair property values within the neighborhood; and
      6.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood and will be consistent with the goals, objectives, and
policies set forth in the Comprehensive Plan.
      7.   The variation will not unreasonably increase the congestion in
public streets.
   (B)   In the case of variations sought from the regulations of Chapter 4
"Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses," the following standards shall
be considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals in lieu of those standards
provided in Section
6-13-39A.:
      1.   Whether a strict application of the terms of Chapter 4 imposes on
the applicant a practical difficulty or particular hardship that can be
alleviated by the granting of a variance under this Part J of Chapter 13; and
      2.   Whether the granting of the variance will be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
      3.   Whether the granting of the variance will be beneficial to the
public welfare of the City as a whole; and
      4.   Whether the granting of the variance will adversely impact the use
or structure on abutting properties and, if so, whether the applicant is
proposing to provide a landscaped or other appropriate buffer to reduce those
adverse impacts; and
      5.   Whether the granting of the variance will either increase the number
of employees hired by the applicant or allow the applicant to maintain a
profitable business within the City; and
      6.   Whether the nonconforming use and/or structure has existed for more
than five years; and
      7.   Whether the applicant has been offered significant financial
incentives by the City and/or County to relocate his or her nonconforming use
and/or structure within the City and/or County. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-40: JURISDICTION:
   (A)   When a property owner or his agent shows that a strict application of
the terms of the Zoning Title relating to the use, construction or alteration
of buildings or structures, or the use of land imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant
such variations of the strict application of the terms of the Zoning Title as
are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the Board is satisfied,
under the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not
merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate
some demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation
from the provisions of the Zoning Title, or in the following instances:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
zoning district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record prior to
the date of passage of the Zoning Title.
      2.   To permit a front yard, a side yard, or a rear yard less than that
required by the Zoning Title, but such variation shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the depth of the front yard, or the depth of the rear yard, or the
width of a side yard as required by the Zoning Title.
      3.   To permit a building to exceed the height limit by not more than ten
percent (10%) of the height limit established by the zoning district in which
it is located.
      4.   To permit the use of a lot less in area than that required by the
zoning district in which it is located by not more than twenty percent (20%).
      5.   To permit the use of a lot less in width than that required by the
zoning district in which it is located by not more than twenty percent (20%).
      6.   To interpret the provisions of the Zoning Title where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
Official Zoning Map fixing the several districts, which Map is made a part of
the Zoning Title. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-41: ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL; CONDITIONS:
   (A)   No variation in any specific case shall be made by the City Council
without a hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals as required herein nor without
a report thereof having been made by the Board to the City Council, and every
such report shall be accompanied by findings of fact specifying the reasons for
the report.
   (B)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and without further public hearing, the City Council may:
      1.   Deny the variation; or
      2.   Refer the application back to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
further consideration; or
      3.   Adopt an ordinance granting the variation.
   (C)   The City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of a
variation as it deems necessary to have the proposed use meet the standards set
forth in Section
6-13-39 above and to prevent or minimize adverse effects on other property in
the neighborhood. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
limitations on size, bulk and location; requirements for landscaping, signage,
outdoor lighting, and the provision of adequate ingress and egress; limitations
on hours of operation; and the mitigation of environmental impacts. Such
conditions may be stricter than any requirement or limitation stated elsewhere
in this Title for the proposed use.
   (D)   Any proposed variation which fails to receive the approval of four (4)
members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the elected members of the City
Council; however, the City Council may approve the variation by only a majority
vote of those members present and voting where the application is filed by the
City itself or by a public school district, public library district, or public
park district governed by a board or commission elected by the residents of the
City. Any variation which receives the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals
may nevertheless be denied by a majority vote of the members of the City
Council present and voting. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2011, 9-2-1997)
6-13-42: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   (A)   The granting of a variation by the City Council authorizes the
applicant to proceed with any necessary applications for building permits,
certificates of occupancy, and other permits which the City may require for any
proposed development of the property. The Building Official shall review
applications for these permits for compliance with the terms of variation
granted by the City Council. No permit shall be issued for work which does not
comply with the terms of the variation.
   (B)   The approval of a variation by the City Council shall be void if the
recipient does not file an application for a building permit or certificate of
occupancy for the proposed use within six (6) months after the date of the
ordinance granting the variation. An applicant who has obtained a variation may
request an extension of this time period by filing with the Building Official a
letter stating the reasons for the request. The Building Official shall
transmit the letter to the City Council which at a regular meeting may grant
the request for good cause shown by the applicant.
   (C)   No application for a variation shall be filed with or accepted by the
Building Official which is identical or substantially similar to an application
which has been denied by the City Council within the previous twelve (12)
months. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-43: CHANGE OF ZONING:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the Zoning
Board of Appeals the power or authority to alter or change the Zoning Title or
any zoning district made a part of the Zoning Map, such power and authority
being reserved to the City Council. The Zoning Board shall not have any power
or authority with respect to any alterations or change of the Zoning Title
except to make recommendations to the City Council in such specific cases as
may properly come before the Board. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART K:   ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
6-13-44: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the Building Official or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the City concerning the interpretation
of this Title, may take an appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by
the Zoning Board of Appeals by general rules adopted by it, and shall be taken
by filing with the Clerk and with the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of
appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and exhibits
as are reasonably necessary. The appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-13-45: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   The appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Official certifies to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals or by a court of record on application, with notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and all due causes shown.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and place for
the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons appealing
and to the officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear and decide the
appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearing parties of interest may appear
in person, by agent or attorney.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm wholly or in part,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as in its
opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have all powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (D)   All final administrative decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals
under this Chapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of the "Administrative Review Act" of the State, approved May 8,
1945, and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto. The term "administrative decision" is defined as in section 1
of the "Administrative Review Act." (735 ILCS 5/3-101) (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 14
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING
SECTION:
6-14-1: Purpose
6-14-2: General Development Standards
6-14-3: Site Landscape Standards
6-14-4: Landscape Improvement Standards
6-14-5: Types of Landscaped Areas
6-14-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Dixon is established to
create uniform landscape, buffering, and tree preservation standards for the
development of property in accordance with the Site Plan Review process and
standards under Chapter 13. The application of these standards is intended to
ensure that the City remains an attractive community in which to reside and
operate a business, and to enhance the character of existing and new
development. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-14-2: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   To promote a functional and attractive development, to minimize
adverse impacts, and ensure that development is an asset to the City, site
development plans and implementation shall conform to the following standards.
   (B)   The following site development standards shall apply to all
developments requiring Site Plan Review in Chapter 13 of this Title unless a
waiver from any or all of the conditions is approved pursuant to the same
procedures set forth in Part E of Chapter 13.
      1.   Preserve Natural Elements:
         (a)   Each site plan shall be accompanied by an analysis of the site
describing: topography, existing vegetation, existing structures and road
networks, visual features, and present use of site.
         (b)   The site design shall minimize disruption of existing natural
features, and wherever possible incorporate them into the overall design
concept.
         (c)   The area necessary for safe and efficient construction
activities shall be clearly identified on the site plan and staked on site.
         (d)   The following specific areas shall be preserved as undeveloped
open space or shall be mitigated:
            (1)   Wetlands as described in section 404 Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972 and delineated on wetlands maps prepared by the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, verified by on-site inspection.
            (2)   Lands in a designated flood plain or floodway.
            (3)   Significant trees with a caliper of six (6") inches or
greater, or stands of trees.
            (4)   Steep slopes in excess of twenty percent (20%) as measured
over a ten foot (10') interval, unless appropriate engineering measures are
taken.
            (5)   Natural vegetation cover on all portions of the site outside
designated construction zones.
            (6)   Habitats of endangered species as identified by the Federal
and/or Illinois Department of Conservation.
         (e)   The site plan shall include evidence that the natural drainage
on the subject site:
            (1)   Is not diverted from existing points of exit;
            (2)   The rate of runoff at all points of exit shall remain
consistent with previous rates at each point of exit and that the overall
velocity at which runoff is discharged is not affected.
            (3)   Erosion control methods shall be employed during
construction.
      2.   Lot Coverage:
         (a)   In order to minimize storm water runoff volumes and to assure
attractive developments, development is limited to the following maximum lot
coverage ratios and includes all primary structures and impervious surfaces.
            (1)   One hundred percent (100%) for all uses in the Central
Business District.
            (2)   Seventy percent (70%) for all uses in neighborhood or general
business districts.
            (3)   Sixty percent (60%) for office and light manufacturing
districts.
            (4)   Eighty five percent (85%) for heavy manufacturing districts.
            (5)   Seventy five percent (75%) for multiple-family residential
developments.
      3.   Off-Street Parking:
         (a)   Off-street parking areas shall not be allowed to dominate the
image of any development.
         (b)   Parking areas serving the Central Business District shall be
well lighted and landscaped.
         (c)   Parking lots serving or adjacent to residential developments
shall be located to the rear or sides of buildings.
      4.   Service/Utility Areas:
         (a)   All service and utility areas which include, but are not limited
to, loading docks, exterior storage areas, dumpsters and mechanical equipment
such as plumbing vent stacks, HVAC transformers, fans and cooling towers, shall
be screened from view by:
            (1)   Locating all service/utility areas away from public rights of
way and concealing them from building entrances, pedestrian areas and adjacent
residential structures.
            (2)   Providing for joint use of service areas by multiple
adjoining buildings.
            (3)   Incorporating trash enclosures into building design.
            (4)   Preventing dumpsters in the middle of open spaces, parking
lots or along circulation paths.
            (5)   Screening utility service areas from public view with
building elements similar in appearance to the main structure.
            (6)   Providing below ground utility connections for all new
developments.
            (7)   Screening rooftop mechanical equipment from view from
adjoining properties by building elements such as parapet walls.
      5.   Public Spaces And Paths:
         (a)   Public spaces and paths intended for pedestrian use should be
designed to incorporate natural features, building and landscape elements to
create safe and comfortable environments.
            (1)   All areas intended for pedestrian use shall be well lighted.
            (2)   Pedestrian paths or sidewalks should be clearly distinguished
from vehicular paths by landscaping, paving materials or architectural
elements.
            (3)   All pedestrian paths shall be handicap accessible, using
ramps and curb cuts conforming to State and Federal A.D.A. standards.
      6.   Site Design Within The Context Of The Surrounding Environment:
Visual continuity between new and existing development shall be maintained by:
         (a)   Building Setbacks: In developed areas of the City new "infill"
development shall conform to established building setback lines.
         (b)   Parking Setbacks: Any parking located within a front yard
building setback shall be located no closer to the right of way than five feet
(5') in the B-1, B-2 and CBD Zoning Districts; and no closer than fifty feet
(50') in the BH-X, LM and GM Zoning Districts.
         (c)   Shared Access: In general business areas and planned unit
developments access from arterial roads shall be minimized, and used jointly
where feasible. Site to site access shall be granted through cross-easement
agreements. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2274, 10-2-2000; Ord. 2329, 6-18-
2001)
6-14-3: SITE LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
The following shall establish the standards for the preparation and submission
of required plans for landscape, buffering and tree preservation unless a
waiver from any or all of the conditions is approved pursuant to the procedures
set forth in Part J of Chapter 13.
   (A)   Landscape Plan Required: A landscape plan shall be required for all
projects requiring Site Plan Review approval.
   (B)   Content Of Landscape Plan: The Building Official may require that
landscape plans include or have attached thereto some or all of the following
information:
      1.   Titled: "Landscape Plan", name and location of project, name and
address of project developer, location and names of abutting streets and rights
of way, graphic and written scale, date of plan and any subsequent revision.
The landscape plan shall be drawn at a scale not smaller than 1"=20'0".
      2.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed property
lines, buildings, structures, parking lots and driveways, roadways and rights
of way, easements, sidewalks, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal
areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, light fixtures, other surface
utility structures, signs and other freestanding structural features,
recreational facilities, setbacks and easements.
      3.   The location, quantity, installation size, mature size, and both
scientific and common names of all proposed plant materials.
      4.   Existing and proposed contours, including the location, slope ratios
(horizontal:vertical) of all proposed berming, at one foot (1') contour
intervals. Location, extent and general elevations and slope ratios of all
detention and retention areas and drainage ways. The elevations at top and
bottom of all proposed retaining and screening walls and fences.
      5.   The designation, location, type and size of all existing trees six
inches (6") and larger in diameter measured four feet (4') above natural grade.
Any trees to be removed should be clearly identified. In the event a
significant number of trees exist in concentrated areas on the site, the
boundaries of the tree grove/forest or woodland area shall be shown with only
trees ten inches (10") and larger in diameter indicated within the woodland
area.
      6.   Details of all fences and walls proposed to be constructed on the
site.
      7.   Elevation, cross sections and other site or construction details
determined to be necessary by the Building Official.
      8.   Quantities indicating the number and total square feet of parking
areas, percentage and number of square feet of the interior parking lot
landscape area, total linear length of buffer yards, plant quantities provided
within buffer yards, and number of square feet provided for property's interior
open space.
   (C)   Timing Of Landscape Improvements: All required landscaping shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. However, a
conditional certificate of occupancy may be issued if weather conditions or
other circumstances beyond the developer's control prevent installation of all
or portions of the landscape materials. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975,
1-6-1997; Ord. 2274, 10-2-2000; Ord. 2329, 6-18-2001)
6-14-4: LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
The following shall establish standards for the landscape improvements required
to be installed as part of the development of new buildings, structures and
uses of land governed by Chapter 13, Part B "Site Plan Review" unless a waiver
from any or all of the conditions is approved pursuant to the procedures set
forth in Part J of Chapter 13 or as set forth below.
   (A)   Minimum Landscaped Open Space: Except as may be otherwise permitted
pursuant to paragraph B below, for all sites a minimum of thirty percent (30%)
of total land area of the parcel shall be devoted to landscaped open space.
   (B)   Flexibility In The Administration Of Required Landscape Standards: To
meet the objectives of this Section, the following landscape requirements are
hereby established. These standards provide specific requirements for site
landscaping. However, the City recognizes that, because of the wide variety of
types of developments and the relationships between them, it is neither
possible nor prudent to establish inflexible landscape requirements. Therefore,
the City may permit less intensive landscaping or flexible landscape design if
approval for such changes is made pursuant to Section
6-14-2 or whenever such changes are (i) appropriate under this particular
circumstances, and (ii) do not constitute a change of more than 33% from the
requirements set forth in subsection A above, and (iii) have been approved by a
majority vote of a committee consisting of the Building Official, the Plan
Commission Chairman and a duly appointed member of the City Council. (Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2274, 10-2-2000; Ord. 2329, 6-
18-2001)
6-14-5: TYPES OF LANDSCAPED AREAS:
This Chapter regulates landscaping of four (4) distinct areas of a parcel as
follows: (see illustration 14.1)
   Interior Parkway
   Buffer Yard Areas
   Parking Lots
   Site Interior
The following shall establish landscape standards for the four (4) distinct
areas of a parcel unless a waiver from any or all of the conditions is approved
pursuant to the procedures set forth in Part E of Chapter 13. The landscape
standards herein designated with an asterisk (*) are recommended, but not
required by this Title.
   (A)   Interior Parkway Planting: Except as otherwise provided in Section
6-14-4 B, interior parkway planting is required of developments in order to
achieve two (2) goals: 1) to screen vehicles which may be viewed from the
public rights of way, and 2) to enhance the image and character of the City
along roadway corridors.
      1.   Multiple Family Residential Districts:
         (a)   In multiple family residential areas there shall be at minimum a
twenty-foot (20') interior parkway provided adjacent to all public rights of
way.
         (b)   Shade trees shall be planted at a quantity of not less than one
(1) tree for every forty (40') linear feet of frontage, excluding driveways,
parallel to and within the right of way, interior parkway, or within the first
five (5') feet of the front property line. No trees shall be planted in the
public parkway without a permit as required in Section
3-6-1 of the City Code .
         (c)   All surface areas of interior parkways shall be sodded, seeded,
or to have installed an approved alternate ground cover, where not otherwise
planted.
         (d)   Where parking lots providing for five (5) or more parking spaces
are in view of the public right of way, there shall be installed within the
interior parkway:
            (1)   One two inch (2") caliper shade tree for every thirty (30)
linear feet of parkway frontage.
            (2)   A one hundred percent (100%) screen of the parking lot
frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3') except for where vehicular
sight lines may be impaired. Screening will consist of one or a combination of
the following: (see illustration 14.2)
   A.   Masonry walls compatible with proposed building design, and landscaped
as a foundation wall.
   B.   Ornamental and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers.
      2.   Business Districts:
         (a)   Commercial developments shall provide at minimum a ten foot
(10') wide interior parkway adjacent to all public rights of way.
         (b)   Shade trees shall be planted at a quantity of not less than one
(1) tree for every forty (40') linear feet of frontage, excluding driveways,
parallel to and within the right of way or interior parkway, or within the
first five (5') feet of the front property line. No trees shall be planted in
the public parkway without a permit as required in Section
3-6-1 of the City Code.
         (c) All surface areas of interior parkways shall be sodded where not
otherwise planted.
         (d)   Where parking lots providing for five (5) or more parking spaces
are in view of the public right of way, there shall be installed:
            (1)   At minimum, one eight-foot (8') ornamental or evergreen tree
for every thirty feet (30') of parkway frontage.
            (2)   A one hundred percent (100%) screen of the parking lot
frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3') in the interior parkway, except
for where vehicular sight lines may be impaired. Screening will consist of one
or a combination of the following: (see illustration 14.2)
   A.   Masonry walls compatible with proposed building design, and landscaped
as a foundation wall.
   B.   Screen fence of wood or approved material at least seventy five percent
(75%) opaque.
   C.   Ornamental and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers.
      3.   Manufacturing Districts:
         (a)   Manufacturing properties, and properties in the BH-X Zoning
District shall provide a minimum fifty foot (50') wide interior parkway
adjacent to all public rights of way, except for properties in the GM District
that meet the criteria in Chapter 11, Section
6-11-13 D.1.
         (b)   Shade trees shall be planted at a quantity of not less than one
tree for every forty (40) linear feet of frontage, excluding driveways,
parallel to and within the right of way, interior parkway, or within the first
five feet (5') of the front property line. No trees shall be planted in the
public parkway without a permit as required in Section
3-6-1 of the City Code.
         (c)   All surface areas of interior parkways shall be sodded, seeded
or to have installed an approved alternate ground cover where not otherwise
planted.
         (d)   Where parking lots are in view of the public right of way, the
developer shall provide within the parkway:
            (1)   At minimum, one eight-foot (8') ornamental or evergreen tree
for every thirty feet (30') of parkway frontage.
            (2)   A one hundred percent (100%) screen of the parking lot
frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3'), except for where vehicular
sight lines may be impaired. Screening will consist of one or a combination of
the following: (see illustration 14.2)
   A.   Masonry walls compatible with proposed building design, and landscaped
as a foundation wall.
   B.   Ornamental and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers. At a minimum,
thirty percent (30%) of a planted screen shall be evergreen.
      4.   Additional Requirements In All Districts:
         (a)   Interior parkways shall also contain shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers along with earth berming in
quantities and heights adequate to substantially screen open storage and
service/utility areas from view of public rights of way.
   (B)   Buffer Yards: Except as otherwise provided in Section
6-14-4 B., all developments shall create a substantial buffer between land uses
promoting a sense of privacy and security. Buffers may be composed of landscape
plantings, earth berming and screen fencing as required for intended land-use,
using one or both of the alternatives described below:
      1.   Multiple Family Residential (R-3 or R-4) Districts Abutting R-1, R-
2, CR or ER Districts
         (a)   Alternative A:
            (1)   A minimum fifteen foot (15') wide planting strip shall be
provided along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit.
            (2)   At minimum, thirty percent (30%) of the length of the buffer
yard shall be planted with three-foot (3') high shrubs. Shrubs are intended to
be planted in groupings or hedges throughout the buffer yard.
            (3)   Twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs and trees
shall be evergreen.
            (4)   There shall be a minimum total quantity of one (1) - two inch
(2") caliper tree provided for every fifty (50) lineal feet of buffer yard.
Spacing of the required trees may vary according to design intent.
            (5)   There shall be a minimum total quantity of one (1) - eight
foot (8') high ornamental/evergreen tree provided for every eighty feet (80')
of lineal length of buffer strip.
            (6)   Earth berming at a maximum slope of 3:1 should be
incorporated along a minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of the linear length
of the buffer strip.
         (b)   Alternative B:
            (1)   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide planting strip shall be
provided along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit.
            (2)   At minimum, twenty percent (20%) of the linear length of the
buffer strip shall be planted with three foot (3') high shrubs. Shrubs are
intended to be planted in groupings or hedges throughout the buffer strip.
            (3)   Twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs and trees
shall be evergreen.
            (4)   There shall be a minimum total quantity of one (1) - two inch
(2") caliper tree provided for every sixty (60') linear feet of the buffer
yard. Spacing of the required trees may vary according to design intent.
            (5)   There shall be a minimum total quantity of one (1) - six foot
(6') high ornamental/evergreen tree provided for every one hundred feet (100')
of linear length.
            (6)   Earth berms at a minimum height of three feet (3') and
maximum slope of 3:1 shall be incorporated along at least fifty percent (50%)
of the length of the buffer yard.
      2.   Business Districts:
         (a)   Business Property Abutting Residential Property: (see
illustration 14.3)
            (1)   A minimum ten foot (10') wide planting strip shall be
provided along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit.
            (2)   There shall be a screened fence or wall of wood or other
approved material six feet (6') high and at least seventy five percent (75%)
opaque, installed along the property line.
            (3)   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of the buffer strip
linear length shall be planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in
height.
            (4)   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs
shall be evergreen.
            (5)   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2")
caliper tree(s) provided for every sixty (60') linear feet of the buffer yard.
Spacing of required trees may vary according to design intent.
            (6)   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the trees may be
ornamental or evergreen trees.
         (b)   Business Property Abutting Business Or Manufacturing Property:
One or both of the following alternatives should be used:
            (1)   Alternative A: (see illustration 14.3)
   A.   A minimum five foot (5') wide planting strip shall be provided along
the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access, utilities or
special circumstances prohibit.
   B.   At minimum, twenty percent (20%) of the buffer strip linear length
shall be planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in height.
   C.   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs shall be
evergreen.
   D.   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2") caliper
tree provided for every sixty-five feet (65') of buffer strip linear length.
Spacing of required trees may vary according to design intent.
   E.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the trees may be ornamental or
evergreen trees.
   F.   At minimum, thirty percent (30%) of the buffer strip linear length
shall be earth bermed to a minimum height of three feet (3') and a maximum
slope of 3:1 (vertical:horizontal).
            (2)   Alternative B:
   A.   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide planting strip shall be provided
along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit.
   B.   At minimum, ten percent (10%) of the buffer strip linear length shall
be planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in height.
   C.   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs shall be
evergreen.
   D.   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2") caliper
tree provided for every seventy feet (70') of the buffer yard. Spacing of
required trees may vary according to design intent.
   E.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the trees may be ornamental or
evergreen trees.
   F.   At minimum, twenty percent (20%) of the buffer strip linear length
shall be earth bermed to a minimum height of three feet (3') and a maximum
slope of 3:1 (vertical:horizontal).
      3.   Manufacturing Districts:
         (a)   Manufacturing Property Abutting Residential Property:
            (1)   A minimum fifty foot (50') wide planting strip shall be
provided along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit. (see illustration 14.4)
            (2)   There shall be a screened fence or wall of wood or other
approved material six feet (6') high and at least seventy five percent (75%)
opaque installed by the manufacturer. The fence may be installed along the
property line.
            (3)   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of the buffer strip
linear length shall be planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in
height.
            (4)   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs
shall be evergreen.
            (5)   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two and one-
half inch (2 1/2") caliper tree provided for every forty (40) linear feet of
the buffer yard. Spacing of required trees may vary according to design intent.
            (6)   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the trees may be
ornamental or evergreen trees.
         (b)   Manufacturing Property Abutting Business Property: One or both
of the following alternatives should be used:
            (1)   Alternative A:
   A.   A minimum fifteen foot (15') wide planting strip shall be provided
along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit. (see illustration 14.4)
   B.   There shall be a screen fence or wall of wood or other approved
material six feet (6') high and at least seventy five percent (75%) opaque, to
screen any open storage areas.
   C.   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2") caliper
tree provided for every sixty feet (60') of buffer strip linear length. Spacing
of required trees may vary according to design intent.
   D.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the trees may be ornamental or
evergreen trees.
   E.   At minimum, fifty percent (50%) of the buffer strip linear length shall
be earth bermed to a minimum height of three feet (3') at a maximum slope of 3:
1 (vertical: horizontal).
   F.   At minimum, twenty percent (20%) of the buffer yard shall be planted
with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in height.
            (2)   Alternative B:
   A.   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide planting strip shall be provided
along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit.
   B.   At minimum, ten percent (10%) of the length of the buffer yard shall be
planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in height.
   C.   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of all required shrubs shall be
evergreen.
   D.   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2") caliper
tree provided for every seventy feet (70') of buffer strip linear length.
Spacing of remaining trees may vary according to design intent.
   E.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the shade trees may be ornamental or
evergreen trees.
   F.   At minimum, twenty five percent (25%) of the buffer strip linear length
shall be earth bermed to a minimum height of three feet (3') at a maximum slope
of 3:1 (vertical:horizontal).
   G.   There shall be a screen fence or wall of wood or other approved
material six feet (6') high and at least seventy five percent (75%) opaque, to
screen any open storage areas.
         (c)   Manufacturing Property Abutting Manufacturing Property:
            (1)   A minimum ten foot (10') wide planting strip shall be
provided along the entire length of the buffer yard, except where cross access,
utilities or special circumstances prohibit. (see illustration 14.4)
            (2)   A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the length of the buffer
yard shall be planted with shrubs three feet (3') or greater in height.
            (3)   There shall be a minimum quantity of one (1) - two inch (2")
caliper shade tree provided for every seventy (70') linear feet of the buffer
yard. Spacing of required trees may vary according to design intent.
            (4)   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the shade trees may be
ornamental or evergreen trees.
   (C)   Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in Section
6-14-4 B., landscaping shall be provided within all parking lots containing
twenty (20) or more parking spaces. Parking lot plantings are intended to
provide screening, shade, subdivide space, and reduce glare and heat from
pavement surfaces by meeting the following standards:
      2.   Each parking row, regardless of its length, shall begin and end with
a landscape island.
      3.   All parking lots or portions of parking lots adjacent to buffer
yards or interior parkways, and which are also adjacent to any residential
property, shall be screened from view along its entire length.
      4.   Parking lot landscape islands shall have barrier-type curbs.
      5.   All parking lot landscape islands shall maintain a thirty inch (30")
clear area measured from face of curb to vehicular overhang. This may be
provided through the use of concrete carriage walks or the planting of ground
cover or sod.
      6.   All parking lot island planters should be over-excavated to a two
foot (2') depth for their entire width and length, backfilled with an
appropriate mix of topsoil, peat moss and nutrients to replace the excavated
material, and shall be compacted, leaving a crowned or mounded top.
      7.   Parking lot landscape islands shall have a minimum width of seven
feet (7') (measured from back of curb to back of curb) and a depth equal to the
depth of the parking stall.
      8.   Parking lot layout and planting designs shall account for and
provide adequate room within buffer yard and/or interior parkway areas for snow
storage.
      9.   Berming in parking islands shall not exceed a maximum slope of 2:1.
      10.   To insure visibility all tree branching shall start no less than
six feet (6') above the parking lot pavement level, and shrubs shall not exceed
a mature height of thirty inches (30") above parking lot pavement level at the
end of parking rows.
      11.   To break up large expanses of parking landscape islands shall be
required such that no parking space may be greater than ninety (90') linear
feet away from either a landscape island or landscaping within a buffer yard,
interior parkway or site interior landscaping. To achieve these objectives, one
or both of the following alternatives shall be used:
         (a)   Alternative 1: A continuous curbed landscape island between rows
of parking shall be provided. When such a continuous island is provided, it
shall be a minimum of seven feet (7') in width and contain a minimum of one two
inch (2") caliper shade tree for every twenty (20) parking spaces.
         (b)   Alternative 2: A maximum of twenty (20) parking spaces shall be
permitted in length of any parking row. A curbed island at least seven feet
(7') wide and as deep as the parking stalls shall be provided to divide the row
length. There shall be a minimum of one two inch (2") caliper shade tree for
each island.
      12.   Adjustments To Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements For
Manufacturing Districts: Applicants proposing parking lots in industrial areas,
other than for designated visitor parking, may propose a landscape option of
effectively screening parking lots from of-site view. The applicant would not
be required to comply with the location and number of landscape islands as
required in Section
6-14-4 G.14 above. Designated visitor parking areas and major entry drives are
not included in this adjustment.
   (D)   Site Interior Landscaping:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in Section
6-14-4B., site interior landscaping shall utilize plant materials, earth
berming and other elements to screen and aesthetically enhance site and
building(s), through the implementation of the following standards:
         (a)   All Zoning Districts Subject To The Requirements Of Chapter 14:
            (1)   Foundation Planting:
               A.   A minimum four foot (4') wide landscape area shall be
provided along fifty percent (50%) of building walls (excluding driveways,
entrance areas, patios and decks), when adjacent to or facing off-street
parking areas or a public street.
               B.   One hundred percent (100%) of this landscape area shall be
planted with a mixture of ornamental and evergreen trees, shrubs or ground
cover (including sod).
               C.   These plantings shall emphasize the softening of large
expanses of the building walls, accent building entrances and architectural
features, and screen mechanical equipment adjacent to buildings.
            (2)   Service Areas Screening: (see illustration 14.5)
               A.   All freestanding utility and mechanical equipment shall be
screened from view through the use of evergreen plant materials or masonry or
wood screen walls compatible with proposed building design.
               B.   Trash dumpsters and other similar waste receptacles or
equipment shall be screened with three (3) sided wood, brick or other approved
masonry walls at least six feet (6') in height, with a solid, attractive single
or double access gate on one side only.
            (3)   Intersection Visibility:
               A.   Landscaping must be designed and installed to minimize
potential obstruction of critical sight lines at intersections as defined in
Section
6-3-5 H. of Chapter 3.
   B.   Trees are allowed in these critical visibility areas if the lowest
branching begins not less than six feet (6') above the pavement.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1975, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2274, 10-2-2000)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2989.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78b3aaf2aef42157a1ad7ab861a8a7ac1f2ffac3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2991.png]
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 15
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Purpose And Scope
6-15-2: Noise
6-15-3: Vibration
6-15-4: Air Pollutants And Odors
6-15-5: Toxic, Hazardous, And Radioactive Materials
6-15-6: Fire And Explosive Hazards
6-15-7: Glare
6-15-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The performance standards set forth in this Chapter are designed to protect the
health, safety, morals and welfare of the residents of the City of Dixon and to
protect, maintain, and enhance the quality of the natural environment of the
City. All new and existing uses established within the City shall comply with
the performance standards set forth in this Chapter. Uses already established
on the effective date of this Chapter shall be allowed to be altered, enlarged,
expanded, or modified, provided that any such additions or changes comply with
the performance standards set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-15-2: NOISE:
   (A)   No land use or other activity within the City shall be conducted in
such a manner that it generates a level of sound on another property greater
than that allowed under the Noise Regulations of the State of Illinois, adopted
by the State Pollution Control Board pursuant to the Environmental Protection
Act, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 111-1/2, 1001 et seq., as amended, and appearing in
Title 35, Subtitle H, of the Illinois Administrative Code, as amended.
   (B)   No land use or other activity within the City shall be conducted in
such a manner that it generates a level of sound on another property which
violates any provision of this Chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the standards set forth above, no land use or other
activity within the City, other than those specified in subsection (d) below,
shall be conducted in such a manner that it generates a level of sound on
another property which is greater than the "A-weighted" sound level set forth
in Table 6.15.1.
   (D)   The limits set forth in Table 6.15.1 shall not apply to the following:
noises not directly under the control of the owner or occupant of the property;
noises emanating from construction, repair, and maintenance activities
conducted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.; noises emanating from
safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure relief valves; and
transient noises emanating from moving sources, such as trucks, automobiles,
airplanes, and railroads.
 
Table 6.15.1
“A-weighted” Sound Level Limits
District Classification of “Receiving” Time of Day Maximum “A-weighted” Sound
Property                                               Level
                                           7:00 a.m.
Residential Districts                      to          75 dB(A)
                                           7:00 p.m.
                                           7:00 p.m.
                                          to          65 dB(A)
                                           7:00 a.m.
Business and Manufacturing Districts       No          80 dB(A)
                                           restriction
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-15-3: VIBRATION:
   (A)   No land use or other activity within the City shall cause or create
earthborne vibrations on another property in excess of the displacement values
set forth in this Section.
   (B)   Measurements of vibration displacement shall be made at or beyond the
adjacent lot line, with an instrument or complement of instruments capable of
simultaneously measuring in three (3) mutually perpendicular directions. The
maximum vector which results shall be less than the vibration displacement
permitted in C. below.
   (C)   The maximum permitted displacement shall be determined in each
instance by the following formula:
   D   K where:   D =displacement in inches;
      f         K =the constant set forth in Table 6.15.2;
               f =the frequency of the vibration transmitted through the ground
in cycles per second.
The maximum earth displacement permitted at any neighboring lot line and at the
boundary of any residential zoning district shall be determined by using the
above formula and the appropriate K value set forth in Table 6.15.2.
 
Table 6.15.2
K Values To Be Used In Measuring Vibration
Location                                        K Value
At Any Business Or Manufacturing Property Line:  
   Continuous vibration                      0.015
Impulsive vibration                             0.030
   Fewer than 8 pulses per 24-hour period    0.075
 
At Any Residential Property Line:                
   Continuous vibration                      0.008
   Impulsive vibration                       0.015
   Fewer than 8 pulses per 24-hour period    0.037
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-15-4: AIR POLLUTANTS AND ODORS:
   (A)   Any land use or other activity in the City which involves the emission
of smoke, particulate matter, or other air pollutants shall comply with all
applicable standards set forth in State and Federal statutes and regulations
regarding the emission of air pollutants. Any such land use or other activity
shall also obtain and maintain all necessary licenses and permits from the
appropriate State and Federal agencies, such as the United States Environmental
Protection Agency and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   No land use or other activity within the City shall be conducted in
such a manner that it generates any odor which violates any applicable
provision of Title 4, Chapter 7 of the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-15-5: TOXIC, HAZARDOUS, AND RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS:
Any land use or other activity in the City which involves the use of toxic,
hazardous, or radioactive materials shall comply with all applicable standards
set forth in State and Federal statutes and regulations regarding the use,
storage, transportation, emission, and disposal of such materials. Any such
land use or other activity shall also obtain and maintain all necessary
licenses and permits from the appropriate State and Federal agencies, such as
the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, and the Illinois Department of Nuclear Safety. (Ord. 1973,
1-6-1997)
6-15-6: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS:
   (A)   All flammable solid, liquid, and gaseous substances shall be stored
and used in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, and local statutes
and regulations.
   (B)   In all non-residential zoning districts, the storage or use of solid
materials or products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is
permitted.
   (C)   In all non-residential zoning districts, the storage or use of solid
materials or products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is
permitted, provided that either of the following conditions is met:
      1.   Solid materials or products shall be stored or used within
completely enclosed buildings having no less than two-hour fire-resistant
exterior walls and protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system; or
      2.   Said material, if stored outdoors, shall be no less than fifty feet
(50') feet from the nearest lot line.
   (D)   The storage or use of flammable liquids shall be permitted in
conjunction with any non-residential use up to the amounts set forth in Table
6.15.3, exclusive of storage of finished products in original sealed
containers. When flammable gases are stored or used, and measured in cubic
feet, the quantity in cubic feet at standard temperature and pressure shall not
exceed thirty (30) times the quantities listed in Table 6.15.3 (one gallon of
solvent equaling thirty (30) cubic feet of vapor).
   (E)   Storage tanks for flammable liquids and gasses shall be located no
closer than fifty (50') feet to any lot line.
   (F)   In addition to the foregoing provisions, any activity involving the
storage or use of materials or products which decompose by detonation is
prohibited in any district, except where specifically licensed by the City.
Such materials shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following: all
primary explosives such as lead azide, lead styphnate, fulminates, and
tetracene; all high explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, PETN, and picric acid;
propellants and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron
hydrides, hydrazine, and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks such as
magnesium powder, potassium chlorate, and potassium nitrate; blasting
explosives such as dynamite and nitroglycerine; unstable organic compounds such
as acetylides, tetrazoles, and perchloric acid; perchlorates; chlorates;
hydrogen peroxide in concentrations greater than thirty five percent (35%); and
nuclear fuels, fissionable materials, and products and reactor elements such as
Uranium 235 and Plutonium 239.
 
Table 6.15.3
Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted (in Gallons)
                                            Above Ground
                                            (within enclosed Underground
                                            buildings)
Materials having a closed cup flash point   5,000            100,000
over 187ºF. but less than 300ºF.
Materials having a closed cup flash point
from and including 105ºF. to and including 2,500            100,000
187ºF.
Materials having a closed cup flash point   1,000            100,000
of less than 105ºF.
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-15-7: GLARE:
   (A)   No land use or other activity in the City shall be conducted so that
direct and indirect illumination from a source of light shall cause
illumination in excess of 0.5 foot-candles, as measured horizontally at the lot
line, at any point within a residential zoning district. However, when street
lighting produces illumination in excess of one foot-candle at a particular
point in a residential zoning district, the contribution by light sources from
any property in a non-residential zoning district, as measured at the same
point, shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the street lighting.
   (B)   Flickering or intense sources of light shall be controlled or shielded
so as not to cross lot lines. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 16
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
PART A:   BUILDING OFFICIAL
6-16-1: Enforcing Officer
PART B:   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
6-16-2: Establishment; Organization
6-16-3: Meetings; Records
6-16-4: Jurisdiction
PART C:   PLAN COMMISSION
6-16-5: Creation Of Commission
6-16-6: Term Of Office
6-16-7: Powers Of The Plan Commission
6-16-8: Alternate Members
PART D:   FEES
PART E:   ENFORCEMENT
6-16-9: Misdemeanor Citations And Judicial Remedies
PART A:   BUILDING OFFICIAL
6-16-1: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The Building Official is designated to be responsible for interpreting and
enforcing this Zoning Title. The Building Official shall have the power and
shall exercise the functions described below, and further prescribed by the
State law and by the terms of all provisions of this Code now in force or
hereafter passed relating to State law.
   (A)   Issue all zoning and building permits and make and maintain records
thereof.
   (B)   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof.
   (C)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and the use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this Title.
   (D)   To review plans submitted by applicants for development approval in
conformity with the terms of this Title.
   (E)   Maintain permanent and current records of this Title, including, but
not limited to all maps, amendments, special uses, variances, appeals, and
applications therefore.
   (F)   Initiate or direct from time to time a study of the provisions of this
Title, and make reports or recommendations to the Planning Commission not less
frequently than once a year.
   (G)   To maintain and make available for public inspection and purchase the
official Zoning Map, the Zoning Ordinance, and the minimum submission
requirements for various types of development review adopted by City Council
resolution. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART B:   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
6-16-2: ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board shall
consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Council. The members of the Board shall serve respectively for the following
terms:
One for one year;
One for two (2) years;
One for three (3) years;
One for four (4) years;
One for five (5) years;
One for six (6) years;
One for seven (7) years.
   (B)   The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of
five (5) years. Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to confirmation
by the Council, for the unexpired term. Members may be removed by the Mayor for
cause after written charges have been filed and after a public hearing has been
held if demanded by the member so charged.
   (C)   One of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be designated
by the Mayor, with the consent of the Council, as chairman of the Board and
shall hold office as chairman until a successor is appointed. The chairman, or
in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
   (D)   The Board shall select one member as secretary to keep minutes and
maintain the records of the Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-16-3: MEETINGS; RECORDS:
   (A)   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. There shall
be at least fifteen (15) days but not more than thirty (30) days notice of the
time and place of such meeting published in a paper of general circulation in
the City, said notice to contain a statement of the particular purpose of such
meeting and a brief description of the location of the property under
consideration at such meeting.
   (B)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Chairman, or in his absence, the Acting Chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings; showing the vote of each member upon every question, or, if
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case of requested variation, and the reasons for granting
or denying such variation shall be specified. Every rule, regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Board shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Building Official and shall be a public record.
   (D)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure, a copy of which and
all recommendations thereto shall be filed in the office of the Clerk.
   (E)   The minutes of the Board shall be open to public examination at
reasonable hours.
   (F)   Expenses incurred by the Zoning Board of Appeals are to be itemized
and shall be borne by the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-16-4: JURISDICTION:
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals as herein created is a body of limited
powers. It shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination, made by the Building Official, and in
those instances described in Chapter 13, Section
6-13-40.
   (B)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper,
and to that end the Board shall also have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART C:   PLAN COMMISSION
6-16-5: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
A Plan Commission consisting of ten (10) members shall be and is hereby
created. The Mayor and the President of the Board of Local Improvements shall
be an ex officio non-voting member of the Commission. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-16-6: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Plan Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve with the consent of the Council. Each member of the present Plan
Commission is hereby reappointed for the term for which such member has
heretofore been appointed by the Mayor and the City Council. Successors to the
members so appointed are to be appointed for terms of four (4) years. One
member of the Plan Commission shall be selected as Chairman of the Plan
Commission. The Chairman shall be selected after recommendation by majority
vote of the members of the Plan Commission and shall be appointed after
obtaining approval by the Mayor and consent of the City Council. The term of
Chairman shall be for a period of one (1) year unless the term such member is
serving is less than one (1) year in which event he shall be appointed for the
balance of his term as a member of the Plan Commission. The Chairman shall
preside at all meetings of the Plan Commission and shall designate a member of
the Plan Commission to act as Chairman in his absence. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-16-7: POWERS OF THE PLAN COMMISSION:
The Plan Commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Council a comprehensive plan of public
improvements looking to the present and future development of the City, such
plan after its adoption by the Council, to be known as the Comprehensive Plan
of the City. The Commission may thereafter, from time to time, recommend any
changes in the Comprehensive Plan. The plan may include reasonable requirements
in reference to streets, alleys and public grounds in unsubdivided lands within
the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant not
more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles from such limits and not included in
any City, village, or incorporated town, such requirements to be effective
whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the adoption of the Plan.
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council and Board of Local
Improvements, from time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance
of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   To give aid to the officials of the City charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the Comprehensive Plan, to further
the making of such improvements and generally to promote the realization of the
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-16-8: ALTERNATE MEMBERS:
   (A)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Council may appoint two (2)
alternate members of the Plan Commission. The Mayor shall designate a first
alternate and second alternate member. Alternate members shall serve in the
order of their designation.
   (B)   Term of the alternate members of the Plan Commission shall be for four
(4) years.
   (C)   When a regular appointed member is absent for any reason from a
meeting of the Plan Commission, an alternate member shall have such powers and
may exercise such duties as a regularly appointed member.
   (D)   When there is a vacancy of a regular member and a new appointment is
to be made, the alternate member who has been designated first alternate shall
then be appointed as a regular member. When the first alternate member is
appointed as a regular member, the second alternate member shall become the
first alternate member. The second alternate member shall become the first
alternate member and the new appointment shall be the second alternate member.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
PART D:   FEES
The Building Official shall recommend and the City Council shall adopt a
schedule of fees to be paid upon the filing of each application specified in
this Title.
PART E:   ENFORCEMENT
6-16-9: MISDEMEANOR CITATIONS AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES:
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this Title, including failure to
secure a required permit, certificate of occupancy, or other form of
development approval, or failure to satisfy any condition imposed in connection
with the approval of a special use or variation shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of no less than five dollars ($5.00), and no more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). The Building Official shall have the power to
issue citations for violations of this Title.
   (B)   The Building Official may initiate judicial proceedings to remedy or
correct any violation of this Title.
   (C)   If the violator does not pay a fine imposed in accordance with this
Chapter within the prescribed time period, then the City may institute a civil
action in the nature of debt to recover the amount owed.
   (D)   In any case where any structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any structure or
land is used in violation of this Title or of any other Title or lawful
regulation, the Building Official, with the assistance of other proper
authorities of the City, in addition to the remedies herein provided, may in
the name of the City of Dixon institute any appropriate action or proceed to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance or use or to impose a penalty for such violation, or to restrain,
correct or abate such violation in order to prevent the occupancy of said
structure or land contrary to the provisions hereof, or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
   (E)   Each day of a continuing violation of this Title shall constitute a
separate violation subject to the penalties and remedies set forth in this
Chapter 16. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 17
AIRPORT ZONING
SECTION:
6-17-1: Title
6-17-2: Airport Zoning Definitions
6-17-3: Airport-Referenced Imaginary Surfaces
6-17-4: Height Limitations
6-17-5: Use Restrictions
6-17-6: Existing Nonconforming Uses
6-17-7: Administration
6-17-8: Permits And Reports
6-17-8A: Requirements For Commercial Aviation Operation
6-17-9: Violations
6-17-10: Amendments
6-17-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the AIRPORT ZONING CHAPTER.
(Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-2: AIRPORT ZONING DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise required, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them.
AIRPORT:                 The Dixon Airport, Charles R. Walgreen Field.
                         The highest point of the landable area of the Airport,
AIRPORT ELEVATION:       established at seven hundred eighty five feet (785')
                         above mean sea level.
                         Any structure or growth or use of land which obstructs
AIRPORT HAZARD:          the air space required for the flight of aircraft in
                         landing or taking off at the Airport or is otherwise
                         hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
                         Any area of land or water, or both, upon which an
                         airport hazard might be established if not prevented
                         as provider in this Chapter, including any such area
AIRPORT HAZARD AREA:     which has been declared to be an airport hazard area
                         by the Department of Aeronautics of this State in
                         connection with any Airport Approach Plan adopted by
                         the Department.
                         A point located at the approximate center of the
                         airport landing area arbitrarily selected and
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: established as shown and described on the Airport
                         Approach and Zoning Plans for Dixon Airport, Charles
                         R. Walgreen Field.
GROWTH:                  The word "Growth" shall mean any object of natural
                         growth.
                         The term "Landing Area" shall mean that area of the
LANDING AREA:            Airport that is used for landing, take-off or taxiing
                         of aircraft.
                         The term "Landing Strip" shall mean that portion of
                         the usable area within the Airport boundary, which
                         either in its natural state or as a result of
                         construction work is suitable for the landing and
LANDING STRIP:           take-off of aircraft under favorable weather
                         conditions, said landing strip having a width of two
                         hundred fifty feet (250'), one-half (1/2) of which
                         shall be parallel to and on either side of the center
                         line.
                         The word "Map" shall mean the Dixon Airport Approach
                         and Zoning Plans consisting of one (1) cover sheet and
                         one (1) plan sheet, which is on file in the office of
                         the Clerk, approved on January 14, 1953, by Joseph L.
MAP:                     McLaughlin, Director of the Department of Aeronautics,
                         State of Illinois, and Norman C. Bird, Chief Engineer
                         of the Department of Aeronautics, State of Illinois,
                         said Map being incorporated herein, and made a part
                         hereof by reference, as the same may be amended and
                         supplemented.
                         The term "Nonconforming Use" shall mean any structure
NONCONFORMING USE:       or growth or use of land which does not conform to a
                         regulation prescribed in this Chapter or an amendment
                         thereto, as of the effective date of such regulations.
RUNWAY:                  The word "Runway" shall mean the paved or surfaced
                         central portion of the landing strip.
                         The word "Structure" shall mean any object constructed
STRUCTURE:               or installed by man, including, but without
                         limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, aerials
                         and overhead transmission lines.
                         The term "Turning Space" shall mean the space limited
                         by the outer edges of the conical surface, the outer
TURNING SPACE:           edges of the transition surface, and the outer edges
                         of the approach surface, and lying between the outer
                         edges of these surfaces and their vertical projections
                         upon the existing ground.
ZONE:                    The word "Zone" shall mean the air space delimited by
                         the Airport-Referenced Imaginary Surfaces.
ZONING :                 The term "Zoning Administration" shall mean the Dixon
                         Airport Zoning Administration.
 
Ord. 54, 5-26-53; amd. Ord. 470; 1-26-65; Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-3: AIRPORT-REFERENCED IMAGINARY SURFACES:
In order to carry out the purposes of this Chapter, all of the land within the
boundaries of the Airport and all of the land which is delimited by the
horizontal projections of all the Airport-Referenced Imaginary Surfaces are
hereby divided into five (5) Airport-Referenced Imaginary Surfaces established
by reference to the Airport, as shown on the Airport Approach and Zoning Plans
for the Airport, and consisting of and described as follows:
   (A)   Datum Plane: The datum plane is a horizontal plane or surface which
includes the surface point of the Airport elevation established to be and at
seven hundred eighty-five feet (785') above mean sea level.
   (B)   Approach Surface: The approach surface is an inclined plane located
directly above the approach area, said approach area being symmetrically
located with respect to the extended runway center line, the dimensions of said
approach area measured horizontally as follows: a length of ten thousand feet
(10,000') beginning two hundred feet (200') from the end of the runway or one
hundred feet (100') from the end of the landing strip, and extending outward,
ending at a point ten thousand two hundred feet (10,200') from the end of the
runway or ten thousand one hundred feet (10,100') from the end of the landing
strip on the extended center line of the runway or landing strip; a total width
of two hundred fifty feet (250') at the end nearest to the runway or landing
strip and flared uniformly to a total width of two thousand two hundred fifty
feet (2,250') at the end of ten thousand feet (10,000') section.
   (C)   Horizontal Surface: The horizontal surface is a horizontal plane,
circular in shape, having a radius of five thousand feet (5,000') from the
airport reference point, at its outer limits and which together with the
conical surface, hereinafter described, form the upper boundary of the turning
space.
   (D)   Conical Surface: The conical surface extends upward and outward from
the outer limits of the horizontal surface.
   (E)   Transitional Surfaces: The transitional surfaces are inclined planes,
symmetrically located about the center line of the runway or landing strip,
extending from the edges of all approach surfaces upward and outward to the
intersection with the horizontal surface or the conical surface; the
transitional surfaces also extend outward and upward from the edge of the
landing strip, parallel with the runway or landing strip center line, until
they intersect the horizontal surface.
   (F)   The boundaries and areas of these Airport-Referenced Imaginary
Surfaces are hereby established as shown on the Map, entitled the Airport
Approach and Zoning Plans for Dixon Airport, Charles R. Walgreen Field. (Ord.
470, 1-26-65 amd. Ord 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no structure or growth
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created
by this Chapter to a height in excess of the height limit herein established
for such zone. The reference plane for determination and establishment of such
heights, except as otherwise specified, shall be the elevation of the datum
plane; seven hundred eighty-five feet (785') above mean sea level.
   (B)   The height limit for each type zone is hereby established as follows:
      1.   Approach Surface Zones: One (1) foot of height for every twenty feet
(20') in horizontal distance, measured outward from the inner boundary of the
respective approach surfaces.
      2.   Horizontal Surface Zones: One hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established Airport elevation.
      3.   Conical Surface Zones: One foot (1') of height for every twenty feet
(20') in horizontal distance, measured outward from the inner boundary of the
respective conical surfaces.
      4.   Transitional Surface Zones: One foot (1') of height for every seven
feet (7') in horizontal distance, measured outward from the inner boundary of
the respective transitional surfaces. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
After the taking effect of this Chapter and notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful to put any land or body of
water located within or partly within any zone hereby created to any of the
following uses:
   (A)   Any use which would create unreasonable interference with radio
communication between the Airport, or communication facilities in the vicinity
thereof, and aircraft, or which would unreasonably interfere with electronic
navigational aids that may at the time of such interference be established for
the vicinity thereof, excepting, however, such uses of land as would cause
interference with what is commonly known or designated as instrument landing
systems.
   (B)   Any use which would materially reduce the visibility within any of the
aforementioned zones.
   (C)   Any use which would make it difficult for fliers in the vicinity of or
on the Airport to distinguish between Airport lights or markers or other
navigational lights or markers in the vicinity of the Airport, and others, or
which would result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the Airport.
   (D)   Otherwise than as excepted in Subsection A herein, any use which would
cause unreasonable interference with navigational aids or devices used by the
Airport or by aircraft commonly using the Airport.
   (E)   Any business, structure, growth, or occupation which by its very
nature is inherently dangerous or hazardous as respects likelihood of causing
or resulting in injury or damage to aircraft or persons using the Airport or
flying in the vicinity thereof, except as hereinafter provided in Section
6-17-8.
   (F)   Any other use which would be detrimental, hazardous, or injurious to
the safety of aircraft using the Airport or maneuvering in the vicinity thereof
or to the health, safely or general welfare of Airport personnel and other
persons using the Airport, except as hereinafter provided in Section
6-17-8.
Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to prohibit the use of
transportation or communication equipment or facilities by any railroad;
provided, that such equipment and facilities do not exceed the height
limitations prescribed in this Chapter. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-6: EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES:
   (A)   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this
Chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or growth not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date hereof, or to otherwise interfere with the
continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require
any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure,
the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
of this Chapter, and is diligently prosecuted and completed within one (1) year
thereof.
   (B)   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this
Section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or growth is hereby required
to permit insofar as practicable the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon, or adjacent thereto, considering such clearances as are required by
the Illinois Commerce Commission or the National Electrical Code, of such
markers or lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Zoning
Administration to indicate to the operators or aircraft in the vicinity of the
Airport the presence of such Airport Hazards, such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the City. (Ord. 1973, 1-
6-1997)
6-17-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   An Airport Zoning Administration is hereby created, and it shall
consist of the members of the Airport Board. No compensation shall be paid the
members of the Zoning Administration, except reimbursement of actual expenses.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made to the Airport Zoning
Administration upon a form furnished by it. Applications which are by this
Chapter to be decided by the Zoning Administration shall be promptly considered
and granted or denied by it. Applications for action by the Board of Appeals
shall be forthwith transmitted by the Zoning Administration to the Board of
Appeals for hearing and decision. The office of the Clerk shall be the office
of the Zoning Administration. (Ord. 54, 5-26-53; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-8: PERMITS AND REPORTS:
   (A)   (Rep. by Ord. 1053, 9-15-80)
   (B)   How Obtained:
      1.   Application for such permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administration created hereunder.
      2.   Each application shall include the purpose for which the permit is
desired with sufficient particularity to permit a determination of whether the
structure will conform to the regulations herein prescribed.
   (C)   Exceptions: Where an emergency installation, repair or replacement is
required to be made by any public utility company, which would ordinarily
require a permit as herein set forth, but the interest of the public from the
standpoint of health, safety, or general welfare does not permit sufficient
time to obtain such permit, then in that event the requirement shall not apply,
but a report shall be given as hereinafter set forth in Subsection D of this
Section.
   (D)   Reports:
      1.   Whenever a new structure is erected or the height of an existing
structure is increased in any of the zones hereby created except the horizontal
surface zone, and the proposed height of such structure does not require a
permit as herein set forth, a written report shall be given to the Zoning
Administration within ten (10) days after the completion of such alteration or
erection, setting forth the facts relating thereto with sufficient
particularity to permit a determination as to whether such structure conforms
to the regulations prescribed herein.
      2.   In Horizontal Surface Zone: Whenever a new structure is erected or
the height of an existing structure is increased in the horizontal surface zone
so as to cause said structure to project more than forty feet (40') above
elevation of Airport elevation, and the proposed height of such structure does
not require a permit as herein set forth, a written report shall be given to
the Zoning Administration within ten (10) days after the completion of such
alteration or erection, setting forth the facts relating thereto with
sufficient particularity to permit a determination as to whether such structure
conforms to the regulations prescribed herein.
   (E)   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the Zoning
Administration determines that a nonconforming structure or growth has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) has been torn down, physically
deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such
structure or growth to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate
from the Zoning Regulations, and the Zoning Administration may by appropriate
action compel the owner of the nonconforming structure or growth, at his own
expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct, or equip such object as may be
necessary to conform to the regulations, or, it the owner of the nonconforming
structure or growth shall neglect or refuse to comply with such an order after
ten (10) days notice thereof, the Zoning Administration may proceed to have the
object so lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped; and shall have a lien
on behalf of the City upon the land whereon it is or was located, and in the
amount of the costs and expenses thereof. Such a lien may be enforced by the
City by suit in equity for the enforcement thereof, as in the case of other
liens. Except as provided herein, all applications for permits for replacement,
change, or repair of nonconforming uses shall be granted.
   (F)   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit a growth, or use his property, not in accordance with the
regulations prescribed in this Chapter, may apply to the Board of Appeals for a
variance from such regulation. Such variance shall be allowed where it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result
in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would
not be contrary to the public interest and safety, but would do substantial
justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this Chapter; provided, that
any variance may be allowed subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board
of Appeals may deem necessary to effectuate the purposes of the Chapter.
   (G)   Hazard Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this Chapter and
is reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure or growth to install, operate and maintain thereon such
markers and lights as may be necessary in the interest of safe air navigation,
as shall be determined by the Zoning Administration, to indicate to flyers the
presence of any Airport Hazard; the cost and expense of installation, operation
and maintenance shall be paid by the owner.
   (H)   Permits will be issued under the following classes:
      1.   Class A Permit: Holder may repair, service aircraft, engines and
other aeronautical equipment in an area designated by the Dixon Municipal
Airport Board. Holder may service aircraft belonging to the general public from
a specified fuel pit installation located on the airport. Fuel pit installation
site must be approved and designated by the Dixon Municipal Airport Board,
under supervision of the Airport Engineer and must comply with all Federal and
State of Illinois rules.
      2.   Class B Permit: Holder may service and maintain his own aircraft
used for his own use providing service is performed in an area designated by
the Dixon Municipal Airport Board. Any installation of buildings or other
permanently installed equipment to operate this service will automatically
become the property of the City of Dixon, Illinois upon completion of
installation.
      3.   Class C Permit: Holder may fly aircraft for hire or transportation
of people and give flight instruction to students operating from the Dixon
Airport providing prior to giving such instruction, he has registered and his
current flight instructors certificate is approved by the Dixon Municipal
Airport Board. Such instructor must be a current holder of commercial,
instructor and instrument licenses to qualify for this permit.
      4.   Class D Permit: Holder may conduct an airplane sales operation from
the Dixon Airport in area designated by the Dixon Municipal Airport Board. Any
installation of buildings or permanently installed equipment for this operation
will automatically become the property of the City of Dixon upon completion.
         (a)   The Dixon Municipal Airport Board may establish minimum
financial and operational standards to be required of each operator, person,
lessee, etc., contracted to provide a service or sale outlet at the Dixon
Airport, Chas. R. Walgreen Field.
         (b)   No person shall engage or employ any other person on the airport
to provide commodities, supplies, or services of a commercial nature as defined
in this Ordinance except from those persons officially authorized by the Dixon
Municipal Airport Board to conduct such commercial activities. (Ord. 54; 5-26-
1953; amd. Ord. 1053, 9-15-1980; Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-8A: REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL AVIATION OPERATION:
   (A)   Financial:
      1.   Investment of at least thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) if
required by the person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, society
or club, singular and plural, hereinafter referred to as "company", ten percent
(10%) of which should be in cash.
      2.   The "company" must own adequate and proper equipment to carry on the
endeavor profitably.
      3.   The "company" shall pay to the City of Dixon, Illinois for space
rentals after granting Class A, B, C or D permits.
   (B)   Management:
      1.   The president of the "company" shall be a full time employee whose
sole job shall be to manage and promote the operation. In the absence of such
an officer, these responsibilities shall be delegated to a General Manager.
      2.   Management must endeavor to have a profitable business while
supplying safe, efficient services for the users of the Dixon Airport and also
serve the promotion and advancement of the Dixon Airport.
   (C)   Certificate Requirements:
      1.   Any "company" desiring to conduct a flight school or engage in
student training in aviation shall comply with the Regulations as set forth in
Federal Aviation Regulation, Part 141, and Part 143, and "company" shall have a
valid "Airman Agency Certificate", issued by the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration, authorizing such activity.
      2.   Any "company" desiring to conduct maintenance service for the repair
of aircraft engines, airframes, propellers, instruments, accessories, or radios
shall comply with the regulations established in Federal Aviation Regulation,
Part 145, and the "company" shall hold a suitable valid "Repair Station
Certificate" and Inspection Authorization Certificate issued by the
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, authorizing such repair
service.
      3.   Any "company" desiring to fly aircraft for hire for the
transportation of people or property shall comply with the Regulations
established in Federal Aviation Requirements, Part 135, as applied to "Air Taxi
Operators", and "company" shall hold a valid "Air Taxi/Commercial Operator"
operating certificate issued by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration.
   (D)   Responsibility:
      1.   Rents and fees must be paid promptly.
      2.   Insurance carried for the protection of the customer covering all
risks, also protecting City of Dixon, Illinois. This coverage shall be set by
the Dixon Municipal Airport Board to suit the circumstances.
      3.   The "company" must accept all the moral and financial
responsibilities of its operation and shall hold the City and the Dixon
Municipal Airport Board harmless of any liability incurred because of such
operations.
      4.   The "company" shall furnish on request, the Dixon Municipal Airport
Board regular monthly financial statements which shall reflect the financial
stature and results of the operating of the said "company". (Ord. 697, 6-5-
1972; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-9: VIOLATIONS:
Any person, other than the Department of Aeronautics, its officers and
employees while acting in their official capacities, who shall violate this
Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to the general penalty provisions of this Code. In addition, the
City may institute in the Circuit Court of the County, an action to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate the violation of this Chapter, or of any order or
ruling made in connection with its administration or enforcement, and the Court
shall adjudge to the plaintiff such relief, by way of injunction, which may be
mandatory, or otherwise, as may be proper under all the facts and circumstances
of the case, in order to fully effectuate the purposes of this Chapter and the
rulings made pursuant thereto. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-17-10: AMENDMENTS:
This Chapter may be amended from time to time as deemed advisable or necessary
by the Authority; provided, that no amendment to this Chapter shall be
effective unless and until a public hearing is had in relation thereto, at
which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the hearings shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City1. (Ord. 54, 5-26-1953; amd. Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997)
                                          
1. For statute authority see S.H.A. 620 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 18
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
6-18-1: Title And Purpose
6-18-2: Definitions
6-18-3: Commission
6-18-4: Nomination Of Landmarks And Historic Districts
6-18-5: Criteria For Consideration Of Nomination
6-18-6: Report And Recommendation Of Commission
6-18-7: Notification Of Nomination
6-18-8: Public Hearing
6-18-9: Determination By Plan Commission
6-18-10: Action By City Council
6-18-11: Council Approval For Certain Developments
6-18-12: Processing Of Applications
6-18-13: Permitted Uses
6-18-14: Property Assessment (Rep. by Ord. 2191, 11-1-1999)
6-18-15: Specific Historical District Designated
6-18-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Historic Preservation
Chapter". The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the educational, cultural
and economic welfare of the public of the City by preserving and protecting
historic sites, streets and neighborhoods which serve as visible reminders of
the history and heritage of the City, State and Nation. The provisions of this
Chapter are designed to ensure that development in such areas will not be
incompatible with the historic heritage of the area and the exterior design of
buildings will be in harmony with the historic shrines in the area. (Ord. 1927,
4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
                                   Any act or process which changes one or more
                                   of the "exterior architectural features" of
ADDITION:                          a structure designated for preservation by
                                   adding to, joining with or increasing in
                                   size or capacity of the structure.
                                   Any act or process that changes one or more
                                   of the exterior architectural features of a
ALTERATION:                        structure, including, but not limited to the
                                   erection, construction, reconstruction, or
                                   removal of any structure.
AREA:                              A specific geographic division of the City
                                   of Dixon
                                   Any structure created for the support,
BUILDING:                          shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
                                   property of any kind which is permanently
                                   affixed to the land.
                                   A certificate from the Historic Preservation
                                   Commission authorizing plans for
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS :   alterations, construction, removal or
                                   demolition of a landmark or size within a
                                   designated historic district.
COMMISSION:                        Dixon Historic Preservation Commission.
COMMISSIONERS:                     Voting members of the Dixon Historic
                                   Preservation Commission.
                                   The act of adding an addition to an existing
CONSTRUCTION:                      structure or the erection of a new principal
                                   or accessory structure on a lot or property.
COUNCIL:                           The City Council of the City of Dixon.
                                   Any act or process that destroys in part or
DEMOLITION:                        in whole a landmark or site within a
                                   historic district.
                                   A standard of appropriated activity that
DESIGN GUIDELINE:                  will preserve the historic and architectural
                                   character of a structure or area.
                                   The architectural and general composition of
                                   the exterior of a structure, including, but
                                   not limited to the kind, color, and the
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: texture of the building material and the
                                   type, design and character of all windows,
                                   doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant
                                   elements.
                                   An area designated as a "historic district"
                                   by ordinance of the City Council and which
                                   may contain within definable geographic
                                   boundaries one or more landmarks and which
                                   may have within its boundaries other
HISTORIC DISTRICT:                 properties or structures that, while not of
                                   such historic and/or architectural
                                   significance to be designated as landmarks,
                                   nevertheless contribute to the overall
                                   visual characteristics of the landmark or
                                   landmarks located within the historic
                                   district.
                                   Any building, structure or site which has
                                   been designated as a "landmark" by ordinance
                                   of the City Council, pursuant to procedures
LANDMARK:                          prescribed herein, that if worthy of
                                   rehabilitation, restoration, and
                                   preservation because of its historic and/or
                                   architectural significance to the City of
                                   Dixon.
                                   The person, corporation, or other legal
OWNER OF RECORD:                   entity listed as owner on the records of the
                                   Lee County Recorder of Deeds.
PLAN COMMISSION:                   The Plan Commission of the City of Dixon.
                                   The process of returning a property to a
                                   state of utility, through repair or
                                   alteration, which makes possible an
REHABILITATION:                    efficient contemporary use while preserving
                                   those portions and features of the property
                                   which are significant to its historic,
                                   architectural and cultural values.
REMOVAL:                           Any relocation of a structure on its site or
                                   to another site.
                                   Any change that does not require a building
REPAIR:                            permit, that is not construction, relocation
                                   or alteration.
SITE:                              The location, place or scene of anything
                                   constructed, erected or taken place.
                                   Any change or repair in the supporting
                                   members of a building, structure, roof or
STRUCTURAL CHANGE:                 exterior walls which would expand the
                                   building in height, width or bulk of the
                                   building.
                                   Anything constructed or erected, the use of
STRUCTURE:                         which requires permanent or temporary
                                   location on or in the ground.
 
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2191, 11-1-1999; Ord. 2892, 9-17-2012)
6-18-3: COMMISSION:
   (A)   Composition of Commission: The Commission shall consist of five (5)
voting members, all of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council. No less than three (3) members of the Commission shall be
residents of the City.
   (B)   Qualifications: The members shall be appointed on the basis of
expertise, experience or interest in the area of architectural history,
building construction or engineering, finance historical and architectural
preservation, neighborhood organizing or real estate.
   (C)   Terms: Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of three
(3) years. Alternate members shall be appointed to serve in the absence or
disqualification of the regular members. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term only. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Officers: Officers of the Commission shall consist of a Chairman,
Vice-Chairman, and a Secretary elected by the Commission who shall serve a term
of one year and shall be eligible for reelection. The Chairman shall preside
over all meetings. In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman shall
perform the duties of the Chairman. If both are absent, a temporary chairman
shall be elected by those present. The Secretary to the Commission shall have
the following duties:
      1.   Take minutes of each Commission meeting;
      2.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the Commission to its members;
      3.   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the Commission;
      4.   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Commission and expiring terms
of members; and
      5.   Prepare and submit to the City Council a complete record of the
proceedings before the Commission on any matter requiring Council
consideration.
   (E)   Meetings: A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All
decisions or actions of the Commission shall require a minimum of three (3)
affirmative votes of the members. Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled
times to be established by resolution of the Commission at the beginning of
each calendar year or at any time upon the call of the Chairman. There shall be
a minimum of two (2) meetings per year.
No member of the Commission shall vote on any matter that may materially or
apparently affect the property, income or business interest of that member. No
action shall be taken by the Commission that could in any manner deprive or
restrict the owner of property in its use modification, maintenance,
disposition, or demolition until such owner shall first have had the
opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the Commission. The Chairman, and
in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths of witnesses. All
meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public. The Commission shall
keep minutes of its proceedings and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk.
   (F)   Powers and Duties: The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
      2.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
      3.   To investigate and recommend to the Plan Commission and to the City
Council the adoption of ordinances designating properties or structures having
special historic, community, or architectural values as "historic landmarks";
      4.   To investigate and recommend to the Plan Commission and to the City
Council procedures to protect properties or structures having special historic,
community, or architectural value;
      5.   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings of
properties or structures which have special historic, community, or
architectural value;
      6.   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for
inclusion on the State or National Register of Historic Places;
      7.   To inform and educate the citizens of Dixon concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the City by publishing appropriate maps,
newsletters, brochures, and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars;
      8.   To accept and administer on behalf of the City, upon designation by
the City Council, such gifts, grants and money as may be appropriate for the
purpose of this Chapter;
      9.   To call upon available City staff members as well as other experts
for technical advice;
      10.   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the Plan
Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant properties;
      11.   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits, or application for zoning variances that affect proposed or designated
landmarks in historic districts. The City Council shall refer applications for
special use or zoning variances to the Commission for comment prior to the date
of the hearing by the Plan Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals; and
      12.   To periodically review the Dixon Zoning ordinance and to recommend
to the Plan Commission and the City Council any amendments appropriate for the
protection and continued use of historically or architecturally significant
properties. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2118, 10-5-
1998; Ord. 2892, 9-17-2012; Ord. 2911, 5-20-2013)
6-18-4: NOMINATION OF LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS:
Nominations shall be made to the Commission on a form prepared by it and may be
submitted by a member of the Commission, owner of record of the nominated
property or structure, the City Council, or any other person or organization.
(Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-5: CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERATION OF NOMINATION:
The Commission shall, upon such investigation as it deems necessary, make a
determination if the nominated property, structures, or area meets one or more
of the following criteria:
   (A)   Its character, interest, or value as part of the development,
heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City, County of Lee, State of
Illinois or the United States of America;
   (B)   Its location as a site is a significant City, County, State or
National event.
   (C)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the City, County, State, or the Nation;
   (D)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
style valuable for the study of a period, type, method of construction, or use
of indigenous materials;
   (E)   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer,
architect, or landscape architect whose individual work has influenced the
development of the City, County, State, or the Nation;
   (F)   Its embodiment of elements of design, detailing, materials, or
craftsmanship that render it architecturally significant;
   (G)   Its embodiment of design elements that make it structurally or
architecturally innovative;
   (H)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that make it
an established or familiar visual feature;
   (I)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to farmhouses, gas stations,
or other commercial structures, with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance; and/or
   (J)   Its suitability for preservation or restoration.
Any structure, property, or area that meets one or more of the above criteria
must also have sufficient integrity of location, design, materials, and
workmanship to make it worthy of preservation or restoration. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-
1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2892, 9-17-2012)
6-18-6: REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF COMMISSION:
The Commission shall within forty five (45) days of receipt of a completed
nomination in proper form adopt a resolution evidencing if the nominated
landmark or historic district meets the criteria for designation set forth in
Section
6-18-5 of this Chapter. The resolution shall be accompanied by a report to the
Plan Commission containing the following information:
   (A)   Explanation of the significance or lack of significance of the
nominated landmark or historic district as it relates to the criteria for
designation;
   (B)   Explanation of the integrity or lack of integrity of the nominated
landmark or historic district;
   (C)   In the case of a nominated landmark found to meet the criteria for
designation:
      1.   The significant exterior architectural features of the nominated
landmark that should be protected;
      2.   The types of construction, alteration, demolition, and removal,
other than those requiring a building or demolition permit, that should be
reviewed for appropriateness pursuant to the provisions of Section
6-18-11 of this Chapter.
   (D)   In the case of a nominated historic district found to meet the
criteria for designation:
      1.   The types of significant exterior architectural features of the
structure within the nominated district that should be protected;
      2.   The types of alterations and demolitions that should be reviewed for
appropriateness pursuant to the provisions of Section
6-18-11 of this Chapter.
   (E)   Proposed design guidelines for applying the criteria for review of
certificates of appropriateness to the nominated landmark or historic district;
   (F)   The relationship of the nominated landmark or historic district to the
ongoing effort of the Commission to identify and nominate all potential areas
and structures that meet the criteria for designation;
   (G)   Recommendations as to appropriate permitted uses, special uses, height
and area regulations, minimum dwelling size, floor area, sign regulations, and
parking regulations necessary or appropriate to the preservation of the
nominated landmark or historic district; and
   (H)   A map showing the location of the nominated landmark and the
boundaries of the nominated historic district. (Ord. 1927, 401-1996; amd. Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2892, 9-17-2012)
6-18-7: NOTIFICATION OF NOMINATION:
The Plan Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the nomination within
thirty (30) days following receipt of a report and recommendation from the
Commission that a nominated landmark or historic district does or does not meet
the criteria for designation. Notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of
the public hearing and a copy of the completed nomination form shall be sent by
regular mail to the owner (s) of record and to the nominators, as well as to
property owners adjoining the nominated landmark or historic district at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice shall also be
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the City. The notice
shall state the street address and legal description of a nominated landmark
and the boundaries of a nominated historic district. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd.
Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-8: PUBLIC HEARING:
Oral or written testimony concerning the significance of the nominated landmark
or historic district shall be taken at the public hearing from any person
concerning the nomination. The Commission may present expert testimony or
present its own evidence regarding the compliance of the nominated landmark or
historic district. The owner of any nominated landmark or of any property
within a nominated preservation district shall be allowed reasonable
opportunity to present evidence regarding significance and shall be afforded
the right of representation by counsel and reasonable opportunity to cross-
examine expert witnesses. The hearing shall be closed upon completion of
testimony. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-9: DETERMINATION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
Within thirty (30) days following close of the public hearing, the Plan
Commission shall make a determination upon the evidence whether the nominated
landmark or historic district does or does not meet the criteria for
designation. Such a determination shall be passed by resolution of the Plan
Commission and shall be accompanied by a record stating the finding of the Plan
Commission concerning the relationship between the criteria for designation in
Section
6-18-5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-10: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
A copy of the resolution and report of Plan Commission shall be sent to the
City Council. The City Council shall, within sixty (60) days after receiving
said report, either accept or reject the recommendation of the Plan Commission.
A majority vote of the City Council shall be necessary for approval for the
nominated landmark or historic district to receive a historic preservation
designation. If the City Council approves said designation, a notice will be
sent to the property owner (s) and the Plan Commission, and the City Clerk
shall record with the County Recorder of Deeds a copy of the ordinance
evidencing that the area has been designated as such and that buildings located
within the boundaries of the historic district shall be subject to the
provisions of this Chapter of this Code. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973,
1-6-1997)
6-18-11: COUNCIL APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN DEVELOPMENTS:
Application for building permits in any historical district must be approved by
the City Council as to the appropriateness of exterior architectural features
which are subject to public view from a public street or way before such permit
may be issued by the Building Official. (Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2191,
11-1-1999)
6-18-12: PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   When an application for a building permit or a permit to erect a sign
in a historical district is filed, it shall immediately be referred to the City
Clerk, who shall place it upon the agenda for the next regular meeting of the
City Council and give notice thereof to the Mayor.
   (B)   The Council shall refer the application to the Commission for its
recommendations.
   (C)   After the City Council has received the recommendations of the
Commission, the Council shall take action on the recommendations.
   (D)   The Council may affirm, reject or modify the recommendations of the
Commission, or may continue the matter to another date.
   (E)   If the Commission fails to submit its recommendation to the Council
within forty five (45) days from the date of the application, the Council shall
proceed to take action on the application, unless the delay has been agreed to
by the applicant.
   (F)   In considering the appropriateness of applications, the Commission and
the City Council shall consider the general design, arrangement, texture,
material, color and other features of the building, structure or sign and the
relation of such factors to buildings in the immediate area. Neither the
Commission nor the Council shall consider detailed design, interior arrangement
or building features not subject to public view. The Commission shall make its
recommendations to the City Council on its decisions solely for the purpose of
avoiding developments which are incongruous with the historical landmark or
historical district in the surrounding areas, or which detract from their value
and dignity.
   (G)   If the Commission recommends a disapproval of an application or if the
Council disapproves an application despite a favorable recommendation by the
Commission, the Commission or Council, as the case may be, shall state the
reasons therefor in writing to the applicant. (Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord.
1973, 1-6-1997; Ord. 2892, 9-17-2012)
6-18-13: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in historical districts:
   (A)   Uses enumerated in the ordinance establishing the historical district.
   (B)   Uses permitted in the area prior to its designation as a historical
district.
(Ord. 1927, 4-1-1996; amd. Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997)
6-18-14: PROPERTY ASSESSMENT:
(Rep. Ord. 2191, 11-1-1999)
6-18-15: SPECIFIC HISTORICAL DISTRICT DESIGNATED:
   (A)   Reagan Home Historic District: Property to be included within the
Historical District is described as follows:
      1.   The North Half (1/2) of Lot Three (3) and the South Half of Lot Two
(2) in Block One Hundred Three (103) of the Original Town (now City) of Dixon,
Lee County, Illinois.
      AND
      The South two-thirds (2/3) of Lot Four (4) in Block One Hundred Three
(103), excepting therefrom the easterly six (6) feet of said Lot Four (4) in
the original Town (now City) of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
      2.   The Westerly Ninety feet of the Southerly One Half of Lot Three (3)
in Block 103 in the Town (now City) of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
      Said Reagan Home Historic District shall include the Ronald Reagan Home,
the Reagan Home Information Center, and parking facilities.
   (B)   South Central School Historic District: Property to be included within
the South Central Historic District is described as follows:
      1.   Lots Three (3), Four (4) and Five (5) in Block fifty five (55) in
the Town (now City) of Dixon, all in Lee County, Illinois, and more commonly
known as South Central School, 207 W. 5th Street, Dixon, Illinois.
      Said South Central School Historic District shall include a museum,
parking facilities and classrooms to reflect the era when former President
Ronald Reagan attended school at South Central School and any other ancillary
uses in compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 1973, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2191, 11-1-1999; Ord. 2858, 12-19-2011; Ord.
2892, 9-17-2012)
CHAPTER 19
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-19-1: Definitions
6-19-2: Solar Permit and Fees
6-19-3: Accessory Use
6-19-4: Principal Use
6-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
                                 An active solar energy system that is an
                                 integral part of a principal or accessory
                                 building, rather than a separate
                                 mechanical device, replacing or
BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY substituting for an architectural or
SYSTEMS:                         structural component of the building.
                                 Building-integrated systems include but
                                 are not limited to photovoltaic or hot
                                 water solar energy systems that are
                                 contained within roofing materials,
                                 windows, skylights and awnings.
                                 A solar energy system mounted on a rack
GROUND MOUNT:                    or pole that rests on or is attached to
                                 the ground.
                                 An active solar energy system that
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM:             converts solar energy directly into
                                 electricity.
                                 A solar energy system that is mounted on
ROOF MOUNT:                      a rack that is fastened onto a building
                                 roof.
                                 The final exterior slope of a building
ROOF PITCH:                      roof calculated by the rise over the run,
                                 typically but not exclusively expressed
                                 in twelfths.
                                 An assembly, structure, and the
                                 associated equipment and housing,
                                 designed for gathering, concentrating, or
SOLAR COLLECTOR:                 absorbing direct and indirect solar
                                 energy for which the primary purpose is
                                 to convert or transform solar radiant
                                 energy into thermal, mechanical, chemical
                                 or electrical energy.
                                 Radiant energy received from the sun that
SOLAR ENERGY:                    can be collected in the form of heat or
                                 light by a solar collector.
                                 A device, array of devices, or structural
                                 design feature, the purpose of which is
                                 to provide for: (I) generation of
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:             electricity; (ii) collection, storage and
                                 distribution of solar energy for space
                                 heating or cooling; (iii) daylight for
                                 interior lighting; or (iv) water heating.
                                 A commercial facility that converts
                                 sunlight into electricity, whether by
                                 photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar
                                 thermal devices (CST), or other
SOLAR FARM:                      conversion technology, for the primary
                                 purpose of wholesale sales of generated
                                 electricity. Solar Farms shall include
                                 solar gardens that are one (1) acre or
                                 more in size.
                                 A commercial solar-electric
                                 (photovoltaic) array, of less than one
                                 (1) acre in size, that provides retail
                                 electric power (or a financial proxy for
SOLAR GARDEN:                    retail power) to multiple households or
                                 businesses residing in or located off-
                                 site from the location of the solar
                                 energy system. A solar garden that is one
                                 (1) acre or more in size shall be deemed
                                 a solar farm.
                                 A system (also referred to as Solar
                                 Thermal) that includes a solar collector
                                 and a heat exchanger that heats or
SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM:          preheats water for building heating
                                 systems or other hot water needs,
                                 including residential domestic hot water
                                 and hot water for commercial processes.
                                 Racking, frames, or other devices that
SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES:          allow the mounting of a solar collector
                                 onto a roof surface or the ground.
                                 A view of the sun from a specific point
                                 on a lot or building that is not obscured
                                 by any vegetation, building, or object
SOLAR RESOURCE:                  for a minimum of four (4) hours between
                                 the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
                                 Standard Time on all days of the year.
                                 (Ord. 3121, 1-7-2019)
 
6-19-2: SOLAR PERMIT AND FEES:
   (A)   Solar Permit Applications: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter,
relocate or demolish any solar energy system without first applying for and
obtaining both a building permit as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 1 of the
Dixon City Code and a solar permit as more specifically provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Review Of Solar Permit Applications: Except as otherwise set forth in
this Chapter, (i) solar permit applications with respect to solar energy
systems that are a permitted accessory use or a permitted principal use shall
be made to the City Building Department and reviewed for approval by the City
Building Official; and (ii) solar permit applications with respect to solar
energy systems that are a conditional accessory use or a conditional principal
use shall be made to the City Building Department and reviewed pursuant to the
procedures for approval of a special use pursuant to Chapter 13 of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (C)   Application Plans: Except as otherwise set forth in this Chapter,
every solar permit application for the construction, alteration or relocation
of a solar energy system shall be accompanied with a written plan and drawing
for the proposed solar energy system. The written plan shall:
      1.   Identify the owner of the property upon which the proposed solar
energy system will be located;
      2.   Identify the owner and operator of the proposed solar energy system,
if not the same as the owner of the property upon which the proposed solar
energy system will be located;
      3.   Indicate the zoning classification of the property and whether the
solar energy system will be an accessory or principal use;
      4.   Include to-scale horizontal and vertical drawings showing all
buildings and accessory structures located on the property, all adjoining
roadways, the location of the solar energy system on the building or on the
property, including all set-back and property lines, the elevation of the solar
energy system, and the location and types of all screening;
      5.   For roof mount solar energy systems other than a flat roof, the
elevation must show the highest finished slope of the solar collector and the
slope of the finished roof surface on which it is mounted;
      6.   Indicate the total wattage anticipated to be generated by the solar
energy system;
      7.   Indicate whether the applicant has obtained an interconnection
agreement with the electric utility in whose service territory the solar energy
system is located, whether the electricity generated will be distributed
privately, or whether the electricity generated will be used on site; and
      8.   Identify the name of the installer of the solar energy system.
No solar permit shall be issued except after approval of the written plan and
drawing and after payment of the fees as provided for herein.
   (D)   Decommissioning Plan: If the solar energy system is a principal use
upon the property, a decommissioning plan shall be submitted with the solar
permit application. The plan shall ensure that the owner or operator properly
removes the equipment and/or facilities upon the abandonment or end of the
project's term or after the solar energy system's useful life. A
decommissioning plan shall include the following:
      1.   The anticipated means and costs of removing the solar energy system;
      2.   Provisions for the removal of all structures and foundations,
including the removal of all electrical transmission components and the
restoration of soil and vegetation;
      3.   The identity of the party or parties responsible for
decommissioning; and
      4.   A plan ensuring financial resources will be available to fully
decommission the site, which plan may include a requirement for the posting,
prior to the issuance of a solar permit, of a bond, letter of credit, or
establishment of an escrow account to ensure proper decommissioning.
   (E)   Application Fees: In addition to payment of all applicable building
permit fees, every solar permit application shall be charged an application
processing fee based on the total wattage anticipated to be generated by the
solar energy system:
0-4 kilowatts (kW)         $ 75.00
5-10 kilowatts (kW)        $ 150.00
11-50 kilowatts (kW)       $ 300.00
51-100 kilowatts (kW)      $ 500.00
101-500 kilowatts (kW)     $1,000.00
501-1,000 kilowatts (kW)   $3,000.00
1,001-2,000 kilowatts (kW) $5,000.00
Over 2,000 kilowatts (kW)  $5,000.00 + 200.00 for each additional 100 kilowatts
                           (kW)
 
   (F)   Demolition Permit: Any person desiring to remove or demolish a solar
energy system shall secure a building permit pursuant to Title 7, Chapter 1 of
Dixon City Code.
   (G)   Fee Surcharge: Any person who constructs, alters, relocates or
demolishes a solar energy system prior to the application, payment and issuance
of a solar permit as required herein shall be charged three (3) times the
application fee.
   (H)   Cancellation, Abandonment And Discontinuance: A solar permit will
become null and void if construction work is not started within six (6) months
of the date the solar permit is issued. Once started, if the work for which the
solar permit was issued is, in the discretion of the City Building Official,
abandoned or discontinued, the solar permit shall be terminated. (Ord. 3121, 1-
7-2019)
6-19-3: ACCESSORY USE:
   (A)   Permitted Accessory Use: The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts within the City
limits when used exclusively for non-commercial purposes:
      1.   A ground mount solar energy system;
      2.   Roof mount solar energy systems; and
      3.   Building integrated solar energy systems.
   (B)   Requirements: Solar energy systems under this section shall be subject
to the following requirements:
      1.   No solar energy system that is an accessory use may be erected prior
to the establishment or construction of the main building to which such system
is accessory.
      2.   Height: The following height requirements shall be met:
         (a)   Building or roof mount solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in their respective zoning district.
         (b)   Ground mount solar energy systems shall not exceed ten (10) feet
in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      3.   Setback: All minimum setback requirements for the zoning district in
which the solar energy system is in use must be satisfied, in addition to:
         (a)   Roof mount or building-integrated solar energy systems shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted or built.
         (b)   Ground mount solar energy systems shall not extend into the side
yard or rear setback when oriented at minimum design tilt.
         (c)   No ground mount solar energy systems shall be allowed in the
front yard of any property.
      4.   Visibility: Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into the
architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from public
right-of-ways other than alleys. A solar energy system may be screened from
routine view through use of fencing, shrubbery, trees, or such other
landscaping or building as may be necessary to satisfy the visibility
requirements herein. The color of the solar collector and solar mounting
devices shall be consistent with other roofing materials. The visibility
requirements as set forth herein are also subject to the following:
         (a)   Building-integrated solar energy systems shall be allowed
regardless of whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way,
provided that the building component in which the system is integrated meets
all required set-back, land use or performance standards for the zoning
district in which the building is located.
         (b)   Roof mount solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of
whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided that the
highest finished pitch is no steeper than the roof pitch on which the system is
mounted, and shall be no higher than twelve (12) inches above the roof.
         (c)   Solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance solar
production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or nearby
properties.
      5.   Glare: Solar energy systems shall be designed, constructed and sited
to minimize or prevent glare and/or reflections on adjacent properties and
roadways, and shall not materially and negatively impact the use thereon. A
solar energy system shall not interfere with traffic, including air traffic, or
otherwise create a safety hazard. In the event that reasonable glare and/or
reflection concerns are raised within the City, the owner will take actions to
address those concerns, including but not limited to additional screening or
otherwise modifying the solar energy system.
      6.   Miscellaneous:
         (a)   Roof mount solar energy systems, excluding building-integrated
systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for fire-fighting purposes to the
roof upon which the systems are mounted.
         (b)   Roof mount solar energy systems shall not be constructed in any
manner which creates an unreasonable risk of falling ice or snow, or which
causes water to flow directly from any solar collector to ground level.
         (c)   Ground mount solar energy systems approved as an accessory use
shall not be larger than the lesser of (i) half the building footprint of the
main building on the property, or (ii) six hundred twenty five (625) square
feet.
         (d)   No ground mount solar energy system shall be constructed in a
manner which increases water drainage flow to any adjacent property. If it
appears that there is a risk of increased water drainage flow, the city
building official may require the installation and maintenance of appropriate
groundcover or detention areas to mitigate any such risk. If the applicant
provides a written report from a qualified professional engineer indicating
that the proposed ground mount solar energy system will not increase water
drainage flow to adjacent property, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied
for purposes of issuance of the solar permit only.
         (e)   Solar energy systems on buildings within designated historic
districts or on locally designated historic buildings (exclusive of State or
Federal historic designation) must be consistent with the standards for solar
energy systems on historically designated buildings published by the U.S.
Department of Interior. Further, no solar energy system shall be located on
such a building without the City Council's approval of the building permit
application following the review and recommendation of the Historic
Preservation Committee pursuant to Chapter 18 of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (f)   Solar energy systems must be certified by a third-party for
safety, performance and quality through a UL (formerly Underwriters
Laboratories) listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems must
have an SRCC (Solar Rating and Certification Company) rating.
         (g)   Solar energy systems shall comply with all applicable local and
state building, electric and plumbing codes.
   (C)   Conditional Accessory Use: Solar energy systems permitted under
subsection (A) of this section that demonstrate that the requirements in
subsection (B) cannot be met without materially diminishing the minimum
reasonable performance of the solar energy system, as that term is defined
herein, may request a special use permit from the City.
      1.   Minimum Reasonable Performance: The standards for the minimum
reasonable performance of certain solar energy systems are as follows:
         (a)   Fixed-Mount Active Solar Energy Systems: They should be mounted
to face within forty-five (45) degrees of south (one hundred eighty-five (185)
degrees azimuth).
         (b)   Solar Electric (Photovoltaic) Systems: The solar collectors
should have a pitch between twenty (20) and sixty-five (65) degrees.
         (c)   Solar Hot Water Systems: The solar collectors need to be mounted
at a pitch between forty (40) and sixty (60) degrees.
         (d)   Location Of All Solar Energy Systems: The solar energy system
should be located where the lot or building has a solar resource, as defined
herein.
      2.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit shall be granted,
regardless of whether the requirements in subsection (B) are not met, if the
applicant demonstrates that the minimum reasonable performance of the solar
energy system is materially diminished and that the following conditions are
present:
         (a)   Safety Conditions: The solar energy system must meet all
applicable local, state, and federal health and safety standards.
         (b)   Aesthetic Conditions: The solar energy system must be designed
to blend into the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view
from public right-of-ways other than alleys to the maximum extent possible,
while still allowing the system to be mounted for efficient performance.
         (c)   Non-Tracking Ground Mount Systems: Pole or ground mount solar
energy systems must be set back from the property line by a minimum of five
feet (5’).
   (D)   Restrictions On Solar Energy Systems Limited: Nothing in this Chapter
shall be deemed a limitation upon any homeowners' agreement, covenant, common
interest community, or other contract between multiple property owners within
the City that prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing solar energy
systems. (Ord. 3121, 1-7-2019)
6-19-4: PRINCIPAL USE:
   (A)   Permitted Principal Use: The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as a permitted principal use within the City of Dixon:
      1.   Roof mount solar gardens.
   (B)   Conditional Principal Use: The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as a conditional principal use within the City and shall require a
special use permit:
      1.   Ground mount solar gardens; and
      2.   Solar farms.
   (C)   Requirements: Solar energy systems under this section shall be subject
to the following, in addition to all other height, set-back, visibility and
other requirements as specified in section
6-19-3(B):
      1.   For Roof Mount Solar Gardens:
         (a)   Roof mount solar gardens are permitted on all properties within
the City zoned for business or manufacturing.
         (b)   Must be less than one (1) acre in total size. Roof mount solar
gardens covering one (1) acre or more in total size shall be considered solar
farms.
         (c)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the solar energy system is located
         (d)   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
collectors and to nearby electric substations or interconnections with
buildings shall be buried underground.
      2.   For Ground Mount Solar Gardens:
         (a)   Ground mount solar gardens are permitted on all properties
within the City zoned for business or manufacturing.
         (b)   Ground mount solar gardens are permitted only after application
for and approval of a special use permit, subject to such standards and
conditions as provided for in section
6-19-3(C)2. and such other applicable standards set forth in Part C of Chapter
13 of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (c)   Must be less than one (1) acre in total size. Ground mount solar
gardens covering one (1) acre or more in total size shall be considered solar
farms.
         (d)   A qualified engineer shall certify that the foundation and
design of the solar mounting devices are within accepted professional standards
with respect to local soil and climate conditions.
         (e)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located.
         (f)   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
collectors and to nearby electric substations or interconnections with
buildings shall be buried underground.
      3.   Solar Farms:
         (a)   Solar farms are permitted only on properties within the City
zoned for manufacturing.
         (b)   Solar farms are permitted only after application for and
approval of a special use permit, subject to the same standards and conditions
as provided for in section
6-19-3(C)2. and such other applicable standards set forth in Part C of Chapter
13 of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (c)   A qualified engineer shall certify that the foundation and
design of the solar mounting devices are within accepted professional standards
with respect to local soil and climate conditions.
         (d)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located.
         (e)   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
collectors and to nearby electric substations or interconnections with
buildings shall be buried underground.
         (f)   A solar farm shall comply in all respects with the City's
stormwater management ordinances.
         (g)   Top soils shall not be removed during development, unless for
remediation. Soils shall be planted and maintained with perennial vegetation to
prevent erosion and manage water run-off.
         (h)   A sign shall be required identifying the owner and/or operator
and provide a twenty four (24)-hour emergency contact phone number. The sign
shall comply in all respects with the City's sign ordinances.
         (i)   Prior to the construction of any solar farm within the City that
will necessitate the use of City roads, the owner or operator of such solar
farm shall enter into a road use agreement or some similar contract with the
City. The contract at a minimum shall include provisions relating to the
construction, maintenance and decommissioning of the solar farm, with terms
agreeable to the City, for the use and repair of City roads during such
periods. The special use permit provided for herein may be conditioned upon the
execution of a road use agreement with the City.
   (D)   Additional Setback, Screening And Lighting Requirements: Solar gardens
and/or solar farms, as applicable, in addition to the requirements specified in
section
6-19-3(B), shall be subject to the following additional standards:
      1.   Solar Farm Setback: Solar farm above-ground improvements must be set
back a minimum of fifty feet (50’) from the front property line and thirty feet
(30’) from all other property lines. However, for any such improvements
including, but not limited to, fences or solar collectors that abut a state
highway, the minimum set back distance shall be one-hundred-fifty feet (150’)
from the centerline of the highway.
      2.   Additional Visual Screening: Ground mount mechanical equipment that
is visible outside the perimeter of the property on which a solar farm is
located must be screened from view of roads and dwelling units located within
five hundred feet (500’) of the solar farm. The screening shall consist of:
         (a)   A landscaped area at least ten feet (10’) in width with at least
one (1) shrub per five (5) linear feet, plus at least one (1) evergreen tree
per twenty-five (25) linear feet of perimeter area. At the time of planting,
shrubs shall be at least three feet (3’) in height and evergreen trees shall be
at least five feet (5’) in height; or
         (b)   A landscaped area at least ten feet (10’) in width with a solid
wall or privacy fence with a minimum height of eight feet (8’). At least one
(1) evergreen tree is required per thirty feet (30’) of the fence or wall.
         (c)   In addition, for residences that are adjacent to the solar farm,
a landscaped berm of at least five feet (5’) in height shall be installed. Such
berm shall be landscaped with one (1) evergreen tree per twenty-five (25)
linear feet along the adjacent property line.
      3.   Lighting: A solar garden or solar farm shall not be artificially
illuminated, unless required by an applicable government agency or authority or
approved by the City as part of a special use permit. If lighting is required
or approved by the City, such lighting shall be limited to that required for
safety and operational purposes and shall be reasonably shielded from abutting
properties. Where feasible, lighting of the solar collectors shall be directed
downward and shall incorporate full cut-off fixtures to reduce light pollution.
   (E)   Monitoring And Maintenance: The owner and/or operator of a solar
garden or solar farm is responsible for keeping the solar garden or solar farm
in a safe, sound and well-maintained condition, including, if applicable,
painting, grounds keeping, structural repairs, internal access drives and
appropriate security measures. The owner of the solar garden or solar farm will
certify to the City at the start of commercial operations that it is in
compliance with this Chapter and that its operation will comply with all
federal, state and local regulations in effect at that time.
   (F)   Abandonment And Decommissioning: A solar garden or solar farm that
does not produce energy for a continuous period of twelve (12) consecutive
months or more and where the owner and/or operator is not pursuing the repair
of such solar garden or solar farm will be presumed to be abandoned.
      1.   Any solar garden or solar farm that is considered abandoned shall be
decommissioned within one-hundred-eighty (180) days after notice from the City.
      2.   Decommissioning, at a minimum, shall consist of:
         (a)   Physical removal of all solar photovoltaic installations,
structures, equipment, security barriers, screening, and transmission lines
from the site to a depth below grade of three (3) feet;
         (b)   Recycling or disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in
accordance with local, state, and federal regulations;
         (c)   Stabilization or re-vegetation of the site, as necessary, to
minimize erosion;
         (d)   Clean-up of any and all environmental contamination
contributable to or arising out of the owner and/or operator's use of the solar
garden or solar farm, necessary to return the property on which the solar
garden or solar farm was constructed to the condition it was in prior to such
use.
         (e)   All other requirements provided for in the solar garden or solar
farm's decommissioning plan.
      3.   If decommissioning is not completed within the time period required
under this subsection, the City may, but is not required to, cause the solar
garden or solar farm to be deconstructed. Upon the occurrence of such event,
the owner and/or operator of the solar garden or solar farm and the owner of
the underlying property shall be jointly and severally liable to reimburse the
City for all costs it may have incurred in connection with the decommissioning
of the site. (Ord. 3121, 1-7-2019)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of International Building Code
7-1-1-1: Amendments To Code
7-1-2: Building Official
7-1-3: Qualifications Of Building Official
7-1-4: Duties Of The Building Official
7-1-5: Cooperation Of Other Officials
7-1-6: Right Of Entry
7-1-7: Terms Defined
7-1-8: Fire Limits Established
7-1-9: Fees
7-1-10: Drainage
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
   (A)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the building official of the city, being marked and designated as the
international building code, 2015 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and hereby is adopted as the building code of the city for the
control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the international
building code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter verbatim, except the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes prescribed in section
7-1-1-1 of this chapter.
   (B)   The following appendices of the international building code, 2015
edition, adopted in subsection (A) of this section, are also adopted:
      1.   Appendix F: Rodent Proofing;
      2.   Appendix G: Flood-Resistant Construction;
      3.   Appendix I: Patio Covers. (Ord. 2989, 2-1-2016)
7-1-1-1: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Chapter 1, section 101.1 Title, of the international building code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building Code Of The
City Of Dixon, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Chapter 1, section 101.4.3 Plumbing, of the international building
code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      101.4.3 Plumbing. All references to the international plumbing code in
this code shall be deemed to mean the most recent edition of the Illinois
plumbing code as adopted in title 7, chapter 6 of the city code.
   (C)   Chapter 1, section 103 Department Of Building Safety, of the
international building code of the city of Dixon is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (D)   Chapter 1, section 105.2 Work Exempt From Permit, of the international
building code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
      Building:
      1.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      2.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      3.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, as
applicable in section 101.2, which are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, do
not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 925 l) and are installed entirely above ground.
      4.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes and not including service systems.
      5.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and
two-family dwellings.
      6.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support of group R-3, as applicable in section 101.2, and group U
occupancies.
      7.   Movable cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches
(1753 mm) in height.
   (E)   Chapter 1, section 109.2 Schedule Of Permit Fees, of the international
building code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      109.2 Schedule Of Permit Fees. A fee for each building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing system or alteration requiring a
permit shall be paid in accordance with the city of Dixon schedule as printed
in section
7-1-9 : Fees, of the city code.
   (F)   Chapter 1, section 114.4 Violation Penalties, of the international
building code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      114.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of
an approved plan or directive of the building official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more
than $750.00. Each day that a violation continues after due notice shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   Chapter 1, section 115.3 Unlawful Continuance, of the international
building code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      115.3 Unlawful Continuance. Any person who shall continue any work in or
about the structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
conditions, shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than
$750.00.
   (H)   Chapter 9 is amended by the addition of section 901.1.1, to read as
follows:
      901.1.1 International Fire Code. The requirements of this chapter shall
include any future or additional amendments to the 2015 international fire
code.
   (I)   Chapter 11, Accessibility, is deleted in its entirety and replaced as
follows:
      Chapter 11 Accessibility
      Section 1101 General
      1101.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois accessibility code shall
control the design and construction of facilities for accessibility for
individuals with disabilities.
   (J)   Chapter 13, Energy Efficiency, is deleted in its entirety and replaced
by the addition of a new section 1301.1, to read as follows:
      Chapter 13 Energy Efficiency
      Section 1301 General
      1301.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois efficient buildings act,
which adopts the international energy conservation code with state of Illinois
amendments, governs the design and construction of buildings for energy
efficiency.
   (K)   Section 1806.2 Exception, is amended as follows by the addition of the
following exceptions:
      1806.2 Presumptive Load-Bearing Values.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A presumptive load-bearing capacity shall be permitted to be used
where the building official deems the load- bearing capacity of mud, organic
silt or unprepared fill is adequate for the support of lightweight or temporary
structures.
      2.   Depending on the use, the code official may accept designs based
upon an assumed soil bearing capacity of 1500 psf provided all of the following
conditions are met:
         a. The building height does not exceed one (1) story or 20 feet in
buildings which contain masonry or concrete walls.
         b. The building height does not exceed one (1) story or 25 feet in
buildings which do not contain any masonry or concrete walls.
         c. The foundation is shallow and the building does not include a
basement.
         d. The building seismic use group is not category II or III as listed
in table 1604.5.
         e. Footings bear on virgin soil that is not questionable including but
not limited to plastic, liquefied, highly sensitive clays, weakly cemented,
peats or organic and expansive materials.
      Prior to issuance of a building permit, a statement in accordance with
section 1704.1.1 shall be submitted by the permit applicant including the name
of the design professional or qualified soils engineer who will be conducting
the inspection.
      Following excavations and prior to pouring of foundations, a site
inspection and written report shall be prepared by a licensed design
professional or qualified soils engineer to indicate that no questionable soils
have been discovered. A copy of inspection report shall be submitted to the
code official prior to inspection listed in section 109.3.1.
   (L)   Chapter 29, Water Supply And Distribution, is deleted and replaced as
follows:
      Chapter 29 Water Supply And Distribution
      Section 2901 General
      Section 2901.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      2901.1 Plumbing. Plumbing for new and existing structures shall comply
with the Illinois plumbing code.
      Section 2901.2 is hereby added to read as follows:
      2901.2 Stormwater Drainage. Stormwater drainage shall comply with chapter
11 of the 2015 international plumbing code.
(Ord. 2989, 2-1-2016)
7-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   (A)   The office of building official is hereby created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the building official.
   (B)   The building official shall be appointed by and shall be under the
supervision of the city manager.
   (C)   During the temporary absence or disability of the building official,
the city manager shall designate an acting building official. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-
2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
7-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
To be eligible to appointment, the candidate for the position shall have had
experience as an architect, structural engineer, building inspector or
superintendent of building construction. He shall be in good health, physically
capable of making the necessary examinations and inspections. He shall not have
any interest whatever, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of
any material, process or device, entering into or used in or in connection with
the building construction, alterations, removal and demolition. (Ord. 408,
1963)
7-1-4: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   (A)   The building official shall devote his whole time to the duties of his
office. He shall receive applications required by this code, issue permits and
furnish the prescribing certificates. He shall examine premises for which
permits have been issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that the
provisions of law are complied with and that construction is prosecuted safely.
He shall enforce all provisions of the building code. He shall, when requested
by proper authority, or when the public interest so requires, make
investigations in connection with matters referred to in the building code and
render written reports on same to enforce compliance with the law, to remove
illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during
construction, or to require adequate exit facilities in buildings or
structures, he shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary,
including issuance of citations for violations of all provisions of the code
within the scope of his duties and responsibilities as building official. (Ord.
2795, 9-7-2010)
   (B)   Inspections required under the provisions of the building code shall
be made by the building official or his duly appointed assistant. The building
official may accept reports of inspections of recognized inspection services,
after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No certificate
called for by any provision of the building code shall be issued on such
reports unless the same are in writing and certified to by a responsible
officer of such service.
   (C)   The building official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and notices or orders issued. He shall retain on file
copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so long as
any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence.
   (D)   All such records shall be open to the public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the
office of the building official without his written consent.
   (E)   The building official shall make written reports to his immediate
superior once each month, or more often if requested, including statements of
permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated. (Ord. 408, 1963)
7-1-5: COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS:
The building official may request and shall receive so far as may be necessary,
in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of other
officials of the city. (Ord. 408, 1963)
7-1-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building official in the discharge of his official duties, and upon proper
identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 408, 1963)
The foregoing provision relative to the right of entry to any building,
structure or premises shall also apply to any and all members of the dangerous
building investigation and condemnation board, heretofore appointed by the
mayor of the city, and confirmed by the council, and they, too, shall all have
the right of entry as provided in the foregoing. (Ord. 527, 9-13-1966)
7-1-7: TERMS DEFINED:
CORPORATION COUNCIL: The attorney for the city.
MUNICIPALITY: The city of Dixon, Illinois. (Ord. 408, 1963)
7-1-8: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
A line shall be established one hundred fifty feet (150') outside of and
measured perpendicular to the boundaries of each district designated by the
zoning title, now in effect or as hereafter amended, for B-1, B-2 and B-
3 business districts and M-1 manufacturing district, limited and the M-
2 manufacturing district, general. The lines so established shall be considered
within the fire limits.
A building or structure shall be deemed to be within the fire limits if more
than one-third (1/3) of the ground floor area of such building or structure is
located therein. (Ord. 408, 1963)
7-1-9: FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to construct, add to, alter, remove, demolish,
remodel, do cement work or commence the construction, addition, alteration,
removal or demolition of any building or structure or install equipment for the
operation of a building or structure, without first filing with the building
official an application in writing and obtaining a building permit therefor.
Application for a building permit shall be made by the owner or lessee of the
building or structure, or agent of either, or by the licensed engineer or
architect employed in connection with the proposed work. If the application is
made by a person other than the owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by an
affidavit of the owner or the qualified applicant or a signed statement of the
qualified applicant witnessed by the code official or his designee to the
effect that the proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee and that the
applicant is authorized to make such application. The names and addresses of
the owner, lessee, applicant, and the responsible officers, if the owner or
lessee is a corporate body, shall be stated in the application. (Ord. 2004, 8-
4-1997)
      2.   Application for such permit shall be made to the building department
and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate showing the
work to be done; such plans shall be verified by the signature of the owner of
the premises and by the signature and seal of the architect or engineer in
charge of the operations. The application fee for a building permit shall be
five dollars ($5.00).
      3.   Such application with plans shall be referred to the building
official, who shall examine the same to determine whether the proposed
construction or alteration will comply with the ordinance provisions relative
thereto. Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned to the applicant
with the permit and the other shall be retained by the building official. No
permit shall be issued until after approval of the plans and payment of all
fees.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to vary from the submitted plans and
specifications unless such variations are submitted in an amended plan to the
building official and approved by the building official and an additional
permit fee, if any, due to an increase in square footage, has been paid. (Ord.
1740, 6-21-1993)
      5.   When determined by the building official that a plan review is
necessary, the building official shall examine or cause to be examined
applications and related documentation within a reasonable time frame after
filing. The plan review fee shall be in accordance with the rates charged by
the International Code Council or other qualified code consultant. (Ord. 2694,
5-19-2008)
      6.   The building official shall make or cause to make such inspections
as are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
and to require any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for
purpose of seeing that they comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      7.   The building permit shall be posted on the premises so that it can
be seen from the street during the time of construction and shall remain posted
until completion of the project. (Ord. 1740, 6-21-1993)
      8.   The estimated cost of construction shall, at minimum, be based on
the estimated unit cost per square foot for the type of construction and the
use contemplated. The latest edition of means cost data, International Code
Council valuation data report, dodge construction digest or similar reference
data may be used to determine estimated unit cost by the building official.
(Ord. 2694, 5-19-2008)
   (B)   Building Permit Fee: The fees for building permits shall be as
follows:
      1.   New Construction Fees: Permit costs for new construction shall
include tenant finish project additions and remodeling from tear out to finish,
relate to square foot construction costs based on "unit rates" per square foot.
These unit rates are applied to gross square footage of a building and include
all structural electrical, plumbing, mechanical, interior finish, normal site
preparation including excavation and backfill, overhead and profit. This cost
is then applied to the permit fee multipliers listed below and used by the city
in determining the final permit fee.
"Unit rate" costs per square foot are established from time to time by the
International Code Council building valuation data report. The latest square
foot construction cost tables with regional cost multipliers from said magazine
will be used by the city in determining permit costs.
The following multipliers will be used:
Commercial/industrial/apartments (4 or more):
 All buildings less than 5,000 square feet x 0.0035
 All buildings over 5,000 square feet but less than 10,000 square feet x
  0.0025
 All buildings over 10,000 square feet x 0.0015
 All other new construction, which shall include additions, porches, second
  stories, and other similar work and remodeling from tear out to finish:
  Tenant finish factors x multiplier
  Structure 0.40, walls 0.10, electrical 0.15, plumbing 0.15, mechanical
    0.15, sprinklers 0.05
Residential:
 R-3 and R-4 structures x 0.0060
 All other construction, which shall include additions, porches, second
  stories, and other similar work and remodeling from tear out to finish:
  Tenant finish factors x multiplier
  Structure 0.40, walls 0.10, electrical 0.15, plumbing 0.15, mechanical
    0.15, sprinklers 0.05
 
The following permit costs are in addition to the new construction fees listed
above:
Residential one- and two-family:         
 Satellite dish antenna                $15.00
 Fences, drives                        10.00
 Curb cuts/per linear foot             0.50
 Swimming pools:                        
  Inground                            20.00
  Aboveground                         10.00
 Hot tubs, spas, jacuzzis              10.00
 Decks                                 (0.05 x square feet)
 Detached garage, single car:           
  Up to 200 square feet               $15.00
  For each additional 100 square feet 2.00
    or any fractional part thereof
Commercial/industrial/apartments:        
 Satellite dish antenna                15.00
 Fences, drives                        20.00
 Curb cuts/per linear foot             1.00
 Swimming pools:                        
  Inground                            25.00
  Aboveground                         15.00
 Hot tubs, spas, jacuzzis              15.00
 Decks                                 (0.05 x square feet)
 Detached garage, single car:           
  Up to 200 square feet               $25.00
  For each additional 100 square feet 3.00
    add
Consultation/inspection:                 
 Rate per hour                         50.00
Site work:                               
 Parking lots, retention ponds, sewer/ Based on fee schedule
  water extensions
Plan review:                             
 Residential one- and two-family       Minimum fee $25.00 per unit up to 3
                                        units
 Commercial/industrial/apartments      Minimum fee $50.00 refer to subsection
                                        (A)5 of this section
Sewer and water:                         
 Inspection for hookup                 $10.00
 
(Ord. 1740, 6-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2312, 3-19-2001; Ord. 2375, 3-18-2002; Ord.
2694, 5-19-2008)
      2.   Alterations, Changes, Modifications And Repairs Performed On
Existing Buildings:
Residential one- and two-family:           
 Satellite dish antenna                  $15.00
 Fences, drives                          10.00
 Curb cuts/per linear foot               0.50
 Swimming pools:                          
  Inground                              20.00
  Aboveground                           15.00
 Hot tubs, spas, jacuzzis                10.00
 Electrical service/per unit             10.00
 Miscellaneous wiring                    Based on fee schedule
 Decks                                   (0.05 x square feet)
Commercial/industrial/apartments:          
 Satellite dish antenna                  $15.00
 Fences, drives                          20.00
 Curb cuts/per linear foot               1.00
 Swimming pools:                          
  Inground                              25.00
  Aboveground                           15.00
 Hot tubs, spas, jacuzzis                15.00
 Electrical service/per unit             15.00
 Miscellaneous wiring                    Based on fee schedule
 Decks                                   (0.05 x square feet)
Demolition or moving a structure:          
 Up to 200 square feet (small shed)      $ 5.00
 201 to 500 square feet (garage)         10.00
  Over 500 square feet (house) plus $2.00
 per 100 square feet or fractional part  35.00
  thereof
Sewer and water:                           
 Inspection for hookup                   10.00
Reroof:                                    
 Residential                             5.00
 Commercial/industrial/apartments 1      15.00
 To change pitch of roof1                20.00
Siding:                                    
 Residential structures up to 1,000      10.00
  square feet
 Residential structures over 1,000       15.00
  square feet
 Commercial/industrial/apartments        25.00
 Soffit and/or fascia                    10.00
Mechanical/heating/ventilation:            
 Air conditioning/incinerators           See fee schedule
 Plumbing                                See fee schedule
Site work:                                 
 Parking lots, retention ponds, sewer/   Based on fee schedule
  water extensions
Plan review:                               
 Residential one- and two-family         Minimum fee $25.00 per unit up to 3
                                          units
 Commercial/industrial/apartments        Minimum fee $50.00 refer to
                                          subsection (A)5 of this section
Consultation/inspection:                   
 Rate per hour                           $50.00
 
Note:
   1.   May require plan review.
      3.   Other Improvements: All improvements to real estate not otherwise
covered under this fee schedule shall pay a fee based on the estimated cost
value of construction:
 
Cost                 Fee
Under $30.00         No charge
$30.00 to $150.00    $3.00
$151.00 to $300.00   4.00
$301.00 to $500.00   5.00
$501.00 to $800.00   6.00
$801.00 to $1,000.00 7.00
 
The balance of fees are as follows:
 
If more than $1,000.00 but not more than $5.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or
$10,000.00                               fractional part thereof
If more than $10,000.00 but not more     $4.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or
than $50,000.00                          fractional part thereof
If more than $50,000.00 but not more     $3.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or
than $100,000.00                         fractional part thereof
If more than $100,000.00 but not more    $2.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or
than $500,000.00                         fractional part thereof
If more than $500,000.00                 $1.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or
                                         fractional part thereof
 
The term "estimated cost" as used in this section, means the reasonable value
of all services, labor, materials, cost of excavation or grading, and use of
scaffolding and other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the
prosecution and completion of the work. (Ord. 1740, 6-21-1993)
      4.   Violation For Not Obtaining Building Permit: Any owner who applies
for a building permit after having received a notification from the building
department of a violation of subsection (A)1 of this section, shall pay one and
one-half (11/2) times the amount the owner would have paid had the building
permit been obtained prior to the commencement of work. (Ord. 2004, 8-4-1997)
   (C)   Cancellation, Abandonment And Discontinuance: Permit will become null
and void if construction work is not started within six (6) months of date the
permit is issued. If the work for which the permit was issued is abandoned or
discontinued, the percentage of work completed may be determined by the
building official in his sole discretion and the portion of the fee
representing the uncompleted work may be refunded to permit holder; provided,
however, no refund of a prescribed minimum fee shall be made. If such
discontinuance is due to revocation of permit, similar adjustment and return
may be made. No refund shall be made until all penalties incurred or imposed by
due authority have been collected. After such refund no work shall be resumed
or commenced until a new application has been made and a new permit issued.
   (D)   Bond And Registration:
      1.   No person shall be a contractor, engage in such business or work, or
be held out for hire for such a business or work, without first having obtained
a certificate of registration from the city. (Ord. 1740, 6-21-1993)
      2.   Application for certificate of registration shall be made to the
building official and shall state the name and address of the applicant, be
accompanied by a bond running to the city in the penal sum of fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) and conditioned that such person will perform all of his
or its work in full and in complete compliance with this chapter, and being
further conditioned that the applicant shall hold and save harmless the city,
its officials, agents and employees from all damages and costs which may be
incurred in defending any claims or actions which may be instituted or filed
against the city, its officials, agents or employees because of the operation
or employment as a contractor or a person held out for hire in the city under
the provisions of this chapter; and further conditioned that if any work done
by such person shall not be in full and complete compliance with this chapter
that such person shall, upon notice from the building official, redo and
complete such work in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2111, 9-8-1998)
      3.   Such application for registration shall also be accompanied by a
certificate of an insurance company authorized to do business in this state
certifying that such applicant has in full force a public liability and
property damage insurance policy with limits of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars/three hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00/$300,000.00)
public liability and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage, or a
three hundred thousand dollar ($300,000.00) combined single limit policy. Said
certificate shall be maintained in current status at all times, in the event
the certificate of insurance should lapse the applicant shall receive no more
permits for construction work until said certificate is fully restored. In the
event said certificate does lapse, applicant will forfeit the previously
deposited fifty dollar ($50.00) fee and will be required to submit a new
registration application, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), a current
certificate of insurance and a bonded insurance in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Each applicant shall have the option to furnish a certificate of
insurance and a bond in the amount of forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00)
running to the cities of Dixon, Rock Falls, and Sterling in the amount of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) each. In the event applicant elects this
option, such registration and certificate shall be accepted in Sterling and in
Rock Falls. The city shall honor all registrations from Sterling and Rock Falls
who provide to the satisfaction of the building official a penal bond in the
amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) running to the city of Dixon
and a registration from either the city of Rock Falls or Sterling. (Ord. 1740,
6-21-1993)
   (E)   Penalty Violations: Any person who violates any provision of this
section or provisions of the building code adopted by the city or fails to
obtain a building permit as provided in this chapter before commencing work on
any property or who shall violate any section of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2004, 8-4-1997)
7-1-10: DRAINAGE:
When a building or parking lot is to be constructed on a lot or part of a lot
that contains a natural waterway, the property owners shall be responsible for
providing the necessary drainage facilities to conduct the stormwater across
the property and to ensure that runoff of water, or rate thereof, from the lot
will be no greater than prior to construction. The drainage facilities shall be
either a properly designed grass waterway, paved ditch or a storm sewer. The
facility shall be sized to carry the runoff from the entire drainage area
according to the rational runoff formula Q=CiA where Q is the volume of
stormwater in cubic feet per second; C is the runoff coefficient, which is that
part of the rainfall rate which will contribute to the runoff rate; i is the
average intensity of the rainfall in inches per hour during the time required
for all parts of the watershed to contribute to runoff; and A is the area of
the drainage basin in acres. Where the major portion of the drainage basin is a
residential area a factor of eight-tenths (0.8) shall be used for the product
of C and i. Grass waterways and paved ditches will only be permitted when the
entire drainage area is within a one block area and in no case will be
permitted when the drainage area extends across a street. When commercial,
industrial or other large runoff areas are with the drainage area the values
used for C and i shall be approved by the city engineer. The property owner
shall submit plans showing size, depth, grade and location to the building
official prior to issuance of a building permit. The property owner shall
furnish the city an easement agreement on the form of agreement furnished by
the city for the purposes of maintenance of the sewer. (Ord. 1129, 4-5-1982;
amd. Ord. 1608, 8-12-1991)
The first floor elevation of the building shall be set high enough so that
positive drainage away from the building in all directions can be assured.
The plat accompanying the application for building permit as required by the
zoning ordinance shall indicate the proposed methods of drainage. (Ord. 1129,
4-5-1982)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS AND AWNINGS
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Adoption Of International Residential Code For One- And Two-Family
Dwellings
7-4-2: Amendments To Code
7-4-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY
DWELLINGS:
   (A)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the building official of the city, being marked and designated as the
international residential code, 2015, including the appendices as defined in
subsection (B) of this section, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the residential code of the city for regulating and
governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-
family dwellings and multiple single- family dwellings (townhouses) not more
than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress in the city; and
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
residential code on file in the office of the building official of the city are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
7-4-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   The following appendices of the international residential code, 2015,
are also adopted:
      Appendix E, Manufactured Housing Used As Dwellings, is added as part of
this code.
      Appendix F, Passive Radon Gas Controls, is added as part of this code.
      Appendix G, Piping Standards For Various Applications, is added as part
of this code.
      Appendix H, Patio Covers, is added as part of this code.
      Appendix J, Existing Buildings And Structures, is added as part of this
code.
      Appendix M, Home Day Care - R-3 Occupancy, is added as part of this code.
(Ord. 2991, 2-1-2016)
7-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Chapter 1, section R101.1 Title, of the international residential code
of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read as follows:
R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Residential Code For One-
And Two-Family Dwellings Of The City Of Dixon, and shall be cited as such and
will be referred to herein as "this code."
   (B)   Chapter 1, section R102.2 Other Laws, of the international residential
code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read as follows:
R102.2 Other Laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provision of local, state, or federal law. In any case where a provision of
this code is found to be in conflict with a provision of any zoning, building,
fire, safety, or health chapter or code of the city existing on the effective
date of this code, the provision which establishes the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of the safety and health of the people shall prevail.
In any case where a provision of this code is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other chapter or code of the city existing on the effective
date of this code which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and health of the people, the provisions of this code
shall prevail, and such other chapters or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
   (C)   Chapter 1, section R103 Department Of Building Safety, of the
international residential code of the city of Dixon, is deleted in its
entirety.
   (D)   Chapter 1, section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit, of the
international residential code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read
as follows:
R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the following:
   Building:
      1.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      2.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, as
applicable in section 101.2, which are less than 24 inches (610 mm) maximum
depth, do not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 925 l) and are installed entirely above
ground.
      3.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and
two-family dwellings.
      4.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than forty eight (48") inches from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support.
   Electrical:
      Repairs And Maintenance: A permit shall not be required for minor repair
work, including the replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable
electrical equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.
   Gas:
      1.   Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
      2.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
      3.   Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed
piping system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
   Mechanical:
      1.   Portable heating appliances.
      2.   Portable ventilation appliances.
      3.   Portable cooling units.
      4.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
      5.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
      6.   Portable evaporative coolers.
      7.   Self-contained refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds (4.54 kg)
or less of refrigerant or that are actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (746 W)
or less.
      8.   Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed
piping system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided,
however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or vent pipe
becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with
new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit shall be
obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or
fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
   (E)   Chapter 1, section R105.5 Expiration, of the international residential
code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read as follows:
      R105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within one hundred and
twenty (120) days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180)
days after the time the work is commenced. Every permit issued shall become
invalid after three hundred sixty five (365) days from the date of issuance,
regardless of progress. Every permit issued for electrical services shall
become invalid after ninety (90) days after its issuance, regardless of
progress. The building official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
extensions of time, for periods of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days
each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated.
   (F)   Chapter 1, section R113.2.1 Notice Of Violation - Service, of the
international residential code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read
as follows:
      R113.2.1 Notice Of Violation - Service. Notices of violations hereof
shall be served upon the person or persons responsible therefor by delivering
same to said person personally, or by leaving a copy thereof at said person's
usual place of abode with a person of suitable age and discretion who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, or by sending a copy thereof by U.S. mail to
said person's last known address, or, if the letter with a copy is returned
showing it has not been delivered to said person, by posting a copy thereof in
a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice.
   (G)   Chapter 1, section R113.4 Violation Penalties, of the international
residential code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to read as follows:
      R113.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the building official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of the Dixon city code. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (H)   Chapter 3, table R301.2(1) Climate And Geographic Design Criteria, of
the international residential code of the city of Dixon, shall be amended to
read as follows:
      Table R301.2 (1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria
 
Ground Snow Wind Speed  Seismic  Subject To Damage From            Winter
Load        (mph)       Design   Weathering Frost Line Termite     Design Temp
                        Category            Depth
30          115         A        Severe     42"        Moderate to -4 Deg F
                                                       heavy
 
Ice Barrier Underlayment Flood Hazards Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
Required
Yes                      See local     See table          See table
 
   (I)   Section R313 is deleted and amended by the addition of a new section
R313, to provide as follows:
      Section R313
      Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems
      R313.1 Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. An automatic
residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in townhouses.
      Exceptions:
         1.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do
not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed, unless the
installation of automatic fire sprinklers is required by local municipal
ordinance or ordinance of the local fire protection district.
      R313.1.1 Design And Installation. Automatic residential fire sprinkler
systems for townhouses shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
current edition of the Illinois plumbing code and NFPA 13D.
      R313.1.2 Other Code Requirements. All structures built without automatic
fire sprinkler systems shall comply with all code requirements of the
international residential code for non-sprinklered construction.
      R313.2 One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems. An automatic
residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required to be installed in one-
and two-family dwellings, including additions and alterations to such
dwellings.
      Exceptions:
         1.   This provision shall not apply where the installation of
automatic fire sprinklers is required by local municipal ordinance or ordinance
of the local fire protection district.
      R313.2.1 Design And Installation. Automatic residential fire sprinkler
systems for one- and two-family dwellings shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the current edition of the Illinois plumbing code and NFPA 13D.
      R313.2.2 Other Code Requirements. All structures built without automatic
fire sprinkler systems shall comply with all code requirements of the
international residential code for non-sprinklered construction.
   (J)   Section R322.1.5 is amended, to provide as follows:
      R322.1.5 Lowest Floor. The lowest floor shall be the floor of the lowest
enclosed area, including basement.
   (K)   Section R322.2.1 (subsections 1 and 3) are hereby amended to read as
follows:
      R322.2.1 Elevation Requirements.
      1.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas not designated as
coastal A zones, shall have the lowest floors elevated 12" (30.5 cm) above the
design flood elevation.
      3.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides shall be elevated
12" (30.5 cm) above the design flood elevation.
   (L)   Section R322.2.2 is deleted in its entirety.
   (M)   Section R403.3.5 is added to read as follows:
      R403.3.5 Detached Garages Or Sheds. The code official may approve a
continuous slab on ground foundations which are located where adequate subsoil
drainage frost protection is provided and the following conditions are met:
      1.   Structure is non-occupiable, unconditioned, detached, of use groups
S or U, does not contain any masonry and does not exceed (1) one story or 25
feet (7.62 m) in height.
      2.   Slab/foundation may not bear on peats, organic or other questionable
soils.
      3.   Slab thickness is not less than 4" with a minimum of 6" x 6" 10#/10#
WWF reinforcing.
      4.   The perimeter of the slab turns down to a minimum of 12" below grade
and is reinforced with a minimum of 1 continuous [minimum 12" tied laps] #4
steel reinforcing bar.
      5.   A minimum of 4 inches of screened and washed gravel or crushed stone
under entire slab.
The grade surrounding the building shall fall a minimum of 6" within the first
10'.
   (N)   Section R1005.1 is amended to provide as follows:
      R1005.1 Listing And Clearances. Factory-built chimneys shall be listed
and labeled and shall be installed and terminated in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation instruction. Where, upon inspection, listing
specifications are not present or visible, combustible materials within 18
inches of the chimney shall be protected with 5/8" type X gypsum board or
equivalent.
   (O)   Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency, is deleted and replaced as follows:
      Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency
      Section 1101 General
      N1101.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois efficient buildings act,
which adopts the international energy conservation code with state of Illinois
amendments, shall govern the design and construction of buildings under this
code for energy efficiency.
   (P)   Section N1101.4 (R102.1.1) is amended to provide as follows:
      N1101.4 (R102.1.1) Above Code Programs. Compliance shall be demonstrated
by meeting the requirements of the current international energy conservation
code as mandated by the state of Illinois.
   (Q)   Section M1201.2 is amended to provide as follows:
      M1201.2 Application. In addition to the general administration
requirements of chapter 1, the administrative provisions of this chapter shall
also apply to the mechanical requirements of chapters 12 through 24, and the
authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).
   (R)   Section M1201.3 is added to provide as follows:
      M1201.3 Licenses And Permits. Mechanical licenses and permits shall be
obtained in accordance with chapter 1 and the 2015 international mechanical
code as amended.
      Exception:
      1.   Jurisdiction with no mechanical licensing requirements.
   (S)   Section M1203 is added to provide as follows:
      M1203 Heating Requirements.
      M1203.1 Heating Required. Heat/supply air is required in all rooms
(including bathrooms).
      Exception:
      1.   Unoccupied storage or other unoccupied spaces.
   (T)   Section M1401.3.1 is added to provide as follows:
      M1401.3.1 Calculations Required. The permit applicant shall submit a room
by room manual J, S, and D calculations for all HVAC equipment and/or
replacement prior to permit issuance.
   (U)   Section M1401.6 is added to provide as follows:
      M1401.6 Furnace Repair. The use of furnace cement or welding for the
repair of a furnace heat exchanger is prohibited.
   (V)   Section M1408, Vented Floor Furnaces, is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (W)   Section M1602.2 - 4 is amended to provide as follows:
      4.   Return air openings for HVAC systems for all dwelling units,
including manufactured and modular homes shall comply with all of the
following: (Exceptions unchanged)
   (X)   G2414.10.1 is added as follows:
      G2414.10.1 Welded Connections Required. All gas lines two and one half
inches (21/2") inside diameter size or larger shall be of welded construction
between the consumer's connection to the gas meter and the shut-off valve
located immediately adjacent to any gas burning unit. All gas fuel lines
carrying gas at one (1) P.S.I.G. or greater shall be of welded construction
between the consumer's connection to the gas meter and the shut-off valve
located immediately adjacent to any gas burning unit.
   (Y)   Section G2415.12 (404.12) is amended to provide as follows:
      G2415.12 (404.12) Minimum Burial Depth. Underground piping systems shall
be installed a minimum depth of 12 (30.5mm) inches below grade except as
provided for in section G2415.12.1. Piping systems and electrical wiring shall
be separated a minimum of 12 inches horizontal when sharing the same trench.
Burial depth may be less than 12 inches as provided for in section 404.12.1.
   (Z)   Section G2445 (621) Unvented Room Heaters, is deleted.
   (AA)   Section P2501.1 is amended to provide as follows:
      P2501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter and the Illinois plumbing
code, including local amendments, shall govern the installation of plumbing.
All work shall be performed by state of Illinois licensed plumbers in
accordance with the plumbing licensing act.
(Ord. 2991, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
7-5-1-1: Amendments To Code
7-5-2: Conflicting Provisions
7-5-3: Electrical Commission
7-5-4: Electrical Contractor And Journeyman Electrician Registration
7-5-5: Validity Of Chapter
7-5-6: Penalty
7-5-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city, being marked and designated as the national
electrical code of 2014, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, be and hereby is adopted as the electrical code of the city for
the control of electrical installations as therein provided. Each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the national
electrical code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter verbatim, except the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes prescribed in section
7-5-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2992, 2-1-2016)
7-5-1-1: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Replacement Of Thirty And Sixty Amp Services:
      1.   One hundred (100) amp electrical service or greater shall be
installed whenever major remodeling is being performed on a residence (50
percent or more of fair market home value), whenever major fire repairs are
being performed, or upon the installation of additional electrical appliances
that would overload existing service.
      2.   All thirty (30) and sixty (60) amp services shall be removed from
all residences within the city that are sold, transferred or conveyed and
replaced with electrical services in accordance with the national electrical
code adopted by section
7-5-1 of the city code at the time the work is performed before the date of
sale, transfer, or conveyance.
   (B)   Article 210.12 shall be amended to read as follows:
210.12 Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter. All one hundred twenty (120) volt,
single-phase, fifteen (15) and twenty (20) ampere branch circuits supplying
outlets installed in dwelling unit bedrooms and closets shall be protected by a
listed arc fault circuit interrupter, combination type, installed to provide
protection of the branch circuit.
   (C)   Fee Schedule: Fees shall be determined according to section
7-1-9 of the city code.
   (D)   Article 210.19(A)(5) shall be added to read as follows:
210.19 Conductors-Minimum Ampacity And Size. (A) Branch Circuits Not More Than
600 Volts. (5) Microwave Circuits. The wiring used to supply power to a
permanently installed microwave oven shall consist of a dedicated circuit
installed with 12 AWG or larger conductors.
   (E)   Article 210.70(A)(1) shall be amended to read as follows:
210.70 Lighting Outlets Required. (A) Dwelling Units. (1) Habitable Rooms. At
least one wall switch-controlled lighting outlet shall be installed in every
habitable room and bathroom. The switch shall be installed at a point of entry
to the room. The main lighting outlet in each room may not be fed from the load
side of a GFCI device. Unless 210.70(A)(1) exception no. 1 is applied,
provision shall be made in the wiring of each ceiling box of all habitable
rooms (excluding dining rooms) for a luminaire to operate independently from a
fan.
   (F)   Article 210.70(A)(3) shall be amended to read as follows:
210.70 Lighting Outlets Required. (A) Dwelling Units. (3) Storage Or Equipment
Spaces. For accessible attics, underfloor spaces, utility rooms, each area of
an unfinished basement, and equipment spaces, at least one lighting outlet
containing a switch or controlled by a wall switch shall be installed in such
spaces. At least one point of control shall be at the usual point of entry to
these spaces. A lighting outlet shall be provided within six feet of any
equipment requiring servicing.
   (G)   Article 210.70(C) shall be amended to read as follows:
210.70 Lighting Outlets Required. (C) Other Than Dwelling Units. For accessible
attics and underfloor spaces, at least one lighting outlet containing a switch
or controlled by a wall switch shall be installed in such spaces. At least one
point of control shall be at the usual point of entry to these spaces. A
lighting outlet shall be provided within six feet of any equipment requiring
servicing.
   (H)   Article 230.11 shall be added to read as follows:
230.11 Service Modifications. When any part of the service entrance equipment,
branch circuit panel, or service conductor is replaced, modified, or required
to be repaired, the service in its entirety must be installed to comply with
the current codes. The main branch circuit panel shall be at least 16 spaces.
Exception: Replacement or addition of a branch-circuit overcurrent protective
device.
   (I)   Article 230.43 shall be amended to read as follows:
230.43 Wiring Methods For 1000 Volts, Nominal, Or Less. Service-entrance
conductors and service laterals overhead shall be installed in accordance with
the applicable requirements of this code covering the type of wiring method
used and shall be limited to rigid metal conduit (RMC) or intermediate metal
conduit (IMC). Electrical metallic tubing (EMT) may be used inside a building
or structure.
   (J)   Article 230.70(A)(1) shall be amended to read as follows:
230.70 General. (A) Location. (1) Readily Accessible Location. The service
disconnecting means shall be installed at a readily accessible location, either
outside of a building or structure, or inside at or within 5 feet of the meter
enclosure.
   (K)   Article 250.52 shall be amended to read as follows:
250.52 Grounding Electrodes. A concrete-encased electrode that complies with
250.52(A)(3) will be required in all new construction. (Remainder of article
unchanged)
   (L)   Article 300.1(D) shall be added to read as follows:
300.1 Scope. (D) Mixed Use And Occupancy Buildings. The entire mixed use and
occupancy building shall be wired by the most restrictive code.
   (M)   Article 300.5(D)(3) shall be amended to read as follows:
300.5 Underground Installations. (D) Protection From Damage. (3) Service
Conductors. Underground service conductors shall be installed in galvanized or
stainless steel rigid metal conduit (RMC) or intermediate metal conduit (IMC).
Underground service conductors that are not subject to physical damage may be
installed in schedule 80 rigid electrical nonmetallic conduit (PVC), protected
by galvanized or stainless steel rigid conduit (RMC) or intermediate metal
conduit (IMC) to a minimum of 450 mm (18 inches) below grade. No exposed
nonmetallic conduit shall be allowed. Underground service conductors that are
not encased in concrete and that are buried 450 mm (18 inches) or more below
grade shall have their location identified by a warning ribbon that is placed
in the trench at least 300 mm (12 inches) above the underground installation.
   (N)   Article 300.11(A)(3) shall be added to read as follows:
300.11 Securing And Supporting. (A) Secured In Place. (3) Tie Wire. Tie wire
shall not be allowed as a sole means of supporting or securing conduit or cable
in above ground applications.
   (O)   Article 300.13(C) shall be added to read as follows:
300.13 Mechanical And Electrical Continuity--Conductors. (C) Multiple
Conductors. A device designed to be used for switching or as a receptacle may
not be used to provide electrical continuity to any circuit conductor.
   (P)   Article 300.13(D) shall be added to read as follows:
300.13 Mechanical And Electrical Continuity-Conductors. (D) Push-Type Clamping
Devices. No push-type or clamp- type connections for splices or for terminating
to devices will be allowed unless the wire connection is secured with a screw
or crimping tool.
Exception 1: Disconnecting means for ballasts.
Exception 2: Factory installed terminations in luminaires.
   (Q)   Article 310.106(B) shall be amended to read as follows:
310.106 Conductors. (B) Conductor Material. Conductors in this article shall be
aluminum, copper-clad aluminum, or copper unless otherwise specified. Aluminum
and copper- clad aluminum conductors shall be prohibited to be installed in
sizes smaller than 4 AWG. Stranded aluminum conductors 4 AWG through 1000 kcmil
marked as type RHH, RHW, XHHW, THW, THHW, THWN, THHN, service-entrance type SE
style U and SE style R shall be made of an AA-8000 series electrical grade
aluminum alloy conductor material.
   (R)   Article 314.27(A)(2) shall be amended to read as follows:
314.27 Outlet Boxes. (A) Boxes At Luminaire Or Lampholder Outlets. (2) Ceiling
Outlets. At every outlet used exclusively for lighting, the box shall be
designed or installed so that a luminaire or lampholder may be attached. Boxes
shall be required to support a luminaire weighing a minimum of 23 kg (50lb). A
luminaire that weighs more than 23 kg (50lb) shall be supported independently
of the outlet box, unless the outlet box is listed and marked on the interior
of the box to indicate the maximum weight the box shall be permitted to
support. In all habitable rooms with a ceiling fixture (other than recessed
fixtures) in a location acceptable for a ceiling-suspended (paddle) fan in
single-family, two- family or multi-family dwellings, a box rated for ceiling
fan support shall be installed.
   (S)   Article 334.10 including (1) through (5) shall be amended to read as
follows:
334.10 Uses Permitted. Type NM, type NMC, and type NMS cables shall be
permitted to be used only in the following: R-2, R-3, and R-4 structures (as
defined by the international building code) not exceeding three floors above
grade.
   (T)   Article 334.15(D) shall be added to read as follows:
334.15 Exposed Work. (D) All Unfinished Areas. Any exposed cable 7 feet
(213.36cm) or closer to the floor must be protected with a durable building
material or sleeved in an approved manner.
   (U)   Article 334.40(B) shall be amended by the deletion of the following:
334.40 Boxes And Fittings. (B) Devices Of Insulating Material. Delete "and for
repair wiring in existing buildings where the cable is concealed."
   (V)   Article 410.36(B) shall be amended to read as follows:
410.36 Means Of Support. (B) Suspended Ceilings. Framing members of suspended
ceiling systems used to support luminaires shall be securely fastened to each
other and shall be securely attached to the building structure at appropriate
intervals. Luminaires smaller than 610 mm by 610 mm (24 inches by 24 inches)
shall be securely fastened to the ceiling framing member by mechanical means
such as bolts, screws, or rivets. Listed clips identified for the use with the
type of ceiling framing member(s) and luminaire(s) shall also be permitted.
Fluorescent fixtures 610 mm by 610 mm (24 inches by 24 inches) or larger shall
be supported independently of the ceiling grid by at least two wires on
opposite corners of the fixture. The same size (or larger) wire used to support
the ceiling system shall be used to support the fixture, but in no case shall
the wire size be smaller than size no. 12 AWG steel.
(Ord. 2992, 2-1-2016)
7-5-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of the national electrical code adopted in
section
7-5-1 of this chapter is found to be in conflict with the provision of any
zoning, building, fire, safety or health chapter of this code existing on the
effective date of this chapter, the provision which establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the safety and health of the
people shall prevail. (Ord. 2817, 2-22-2011)
7-5-3: ELECTRICAL COMMISSION:
   (A)   Commission Established: There is hereby established an electrical
commission which shall consist of five (5) members. One member shall be the
building official and he shall serve as the chairman of the commission; one
member shall be an electrical contractor; one member shall be a journeyman
electrician; one member shall be a representative of an electrical power supply
company; and one member shall be a representative of an association maintained
by the fire underwriters, if no such representative resides within the city
limits, the chief of the fire department shall be the fifth member. Such
members, other than the building official, shall be appointed for two (2) years
by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the council. No member shall
receive compensation for services on such commission. Such commission shall
recommend safe and practical standards and specifications for the alterations
and use of electric equipment designed to meet the necessities and conditions
that prevail in the city, shall recommend reasonable rules and regulations
governing the issuance of permits by the building official, and shall recommend
reasonable fees to be paid for the inspection by such building official of all
electrical equipment installed or altered within the city; provided, however,
that such standards and specifications, rules and regulations, and fees shall
not become effective until adopted by ordinance by the city council.
   (B)   Standards And Specifications: No wiring, apparatus, fixtures, or
electrical equipment shall be installed, altered or changed in any building or
structure without a permit for that purpose having first been obtained from the
building official. The building official shall issue permits for such
installation, alteration or repairs where application has been made in
accordance with this chapter. The provisions for inspection of work authorized
by permits shall not be construed as prohibiting inspection of any electrical
equipment now or hereafter installed whenever the building official determines
that the public safety requires it. No inspection fee shall be charged for such
inspection, but in case such inspection discloses defects which the owner
desires to correct, a permit shall be obtained for the work to be done in the
same manner as other permits.
   (C)   Inspections: The building official shall have the right during
reasonable hours to enter any building in the discharge of his official duties,
or for the purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation or
alteration of electrical equipment contained therein, and shall have the
authority to cause the turning off of all electrical currents and to cut or
disconnect in cases of emergency any wire where such electrical currents are
dangerous to life or property or may interfere with the work of the fire
department.
   (D)   Certificate Of Inspection: Upon the completion of installation or
alteration of electrical equipment in any building, it shall be the duty of the
person installing or altering the same to notify the building official, who
shall inspect the work within seventy two (72) hours after such notice is
given; and if such electrical equipment is found to be fully in compliance with
this chapter and does not constitute a hazard to life and property, he shall
issue to such a person for delivery to the owner, a certificate of inspection
authorizing connection to the electrical service and the turning on of the
current. All wires which are to be hidden from view shall be inspected before
concealment, and any person installing such wires shall notify the building
official seventy two (72) hours in advance before such wires are concealed.
   (E)   Compliance With This Chapter: No certificate of inspection shall be
issued for any work which does not comply with the provisions of this chapter
and with the national electrical code adopted by section
7-5-1 of this chapter at the time of inspection.
   (F)   Inspection When Public Safety Requires: The provisions for inspection
of work authorized by the permits issued in accordance herewith shall not be
construed as prohibiting the inspection of any electrical equipment now or
hereafter installed whenever the building official shall determine that the
public safety requires it. No inspection fee shall be charged for such extra or
additional inspection, but in case it becomes necessary to replace such
electrical equipment on account of defects disclosed by such inspection, a
permit therefor shall be obtained in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   City's Liability: The city assumes no responsibility for the
insufficiency of any inspection made under the provisions of this chapter, and
assumes no responsibility for any damage which may result to any person by
reason of the failure of the building official to cause the correction of any
defects or to discover such defects.
   (H)   Connections: All persons engaged in commercial light or power
transmission and furnishing current to consumers shall, before connecting any
installation, give the building official notice of such proposed connection,
giving the name and location by street number. (Ord. 2817, 2-22-2011)
7-5-4: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR AND JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Definitions:
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation undertaking the
execution of electrical work or engaged in the business of installing or
altering by contract electrical equipment for utilization of electricity,
supplied for light, heat or power, not including radio apparatus or equipment
for wireless reception of sounds or signals, and not including apparatus,
conductors and other equipment installed for or by public utilities, including
common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois commerce
commission, for use in their operation as public utilities, but the term
"electrical contractor" does not include employees employed by such contractor
to do or supervise such work, nor does it include homeowners who do their own
work, on their own home. The term also does not include the "plant electrician"
as hereinafter defined.
The building official may issue to an individual a special owner's permit,
authorizing said individual to install, alter or change electrical equipment
in, or about the residential dwelling which said individual is owner and
resides therein but not elsewhere; provided, that no electrical work authorized
under any such special owner's permit shall be done, nor shall the owner
holding any such permit allow any such work to be done, except personally by
the owner to whom the permit is issued, or by a member of his immediate family;
and if this or any other provision hereof shall be violated by the holder of
such special owner's permit, such permit shall be subject to immediate
cancellation by the building official, and the holder thereof shall be liable
to the penalty hereinafter provided for violation of this code. Special owner's
permit will be issued to wire only the residential dwelling in which owner
resides. The homeowner shall in all respects comply with and be subject to all
other provisions of this chapter and the national electrical code.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: Conductors and equipment installed for the utilization
of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, but does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and signals, and does
not include apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed for or by
public utilities, including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction
of the Illinois commerce commission, for use in their operation as public
utilities.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN: Any person skilled in the installation of electric
wiring and equipment for the production, modification, regulation, control,
distribution, utilization or safeguarding of electrical energy for mechanical,
chemical, heating, lighting or similar purposes, and who is engaged in this
work as his principal occupation, and who works for and under the direction of
an electrical contractor.
   PLANT ELECTRICIAN: Any electrician regularly employed by a person, firm or
corporation and whose electrical work for such employer is limited exclusively
to the plant or shop of his employer.
   (B)   Certificate Of Registration:
      1.   No person shall be an electrical contractor or engage in said
business without first having obtained a certificate of registration from the
city. Applications for such certificates shall be made to the building
official.
      2.   Before issuance of a certificate of registration the applicant shall
provide proof that he meets the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   The applicant shall have been actually engaged and employed for
a period of four (4) years under the direct supervision and control of a
qualified and licensed electrical contractor. An applicant may substitute
college credit for a portion of the years of employment requirement provided
that the following conditions shall apply in order for any substitution to be
permitted:
            (1)   The applicant shall have earned a minimum of twelve (12)
credit hours per year in basic electrical courses.
            (2)   No more than two (2) years of employment may be deleted by
substitution.
         (b)   The applicant shall have obtained a satisfactory passing score
upon a test administered to electrical registration applicants in any city in
the state provided that the test taken by the applicant was based upon the
latest issue of the national electrical code in force at the time of the test.
         (c)   Any person who shall have been actually engaged in the business
of electrical contracting for a minimum of four (4) years at the time of the
adoption of this amendatory section shall be eligible to take the electrical
registration test to be administered by the city. (Ord. 2817, 2-22-2011)
   (C)   Testing Procedures:
      1.   A test shall be administered to applicants for electrical contractor
registration by appointment with the city. The registration certificate issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be issued from the city which is the principal
place of business of the applicant. (Ord. 2992, 2-1-2016)
      2.   Each applicant shall submit a fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) with the initial request to take the test for registration. A
separate fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall accompany each additional request
regardless of the number of times a test shall have been previously taken by
the applicant. Applicants who fail any section of the test must wait thirty
(30) days before retesting. No person shall be permitted to retake the test
more than two (2) times within twelve (12) months of the original testing date.
      3.   A written application shall be submitted to the building official,
and therewith, the applicant shall provide a written affidavit as to his
employment or work experience or college credit transcripts and a complete
application form for issuance of certificate of registration. The applicant
shall submit written affidavits by two (2) nonrelated persons as verification
of his years of employment and experience requirements.
      4.   Any certificate of registration issued under this chapter shall be
nontransferable and nonassignable. The attempted transfer or lending of same to
another person, shall be grounds for revocation of the certificate. (A
certificate of registration, after hearing before the electrical commission and
a recommendation by the electrical commission to that effect, may be revoked by
the city council.) Failure or refusal of the electrical contractor to comply
with the rules of the electrical commission or the provisions of this chapter
shall be grounds for such revocation. Such registration may be reinstated in
the same manner as a new registration is issued and on the same terms.
   (D)   Insurance Requirements: Applications for registration as an electrical
contractor shall be accompanied by a certificate of an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, certifying that such applicant has in
full force a public liability and property damage insurance policy with limits
not less than one hundred thousand dollars/three hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00/$300,000.00) public liability, and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage, or a three hundred thousand dollar ($300,000.00)
combined single limit policy. Such certificate shall be maintained in current
status at all times, and in the event the certificate of insurance should
lapse, the applicant shall not receive permits for electrical work until such
certificate is restored. Such application shall also be accompanied by a bond
running to the city in the penal sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00)
conditioned that such person will perform all electrical work in complete
compliance with this chapter and further conditioned that if any work done by
such person shall not be in full and complete compliance with the ordinances of
the city, that such person will, upon notice from the building official,
complete such work in accordance with such ordinances. Said bond shall be
further conditioned upon such person holding the city, its officials, agents
and employees harmless from all damages and costs which may be incurred in
defending any claim or actions which may be instituted or filed against the
city, its officials, agents or employees because of the operation or employment
as an electrical contractor in the city of the applicant.
   (E)   Registration From Other Cities: The city shall honor any registration
as electrical contractor issued by any other city of the state, provided that
prior to entering upon any contract or work in the city, the licensee shall
provide to the city a bond and certificate of insurance in conformance with the
requirements of subsection (D) of this section.
   (F)   Miscellaneous: Nothing contained within this chapter shall prohibit
any individual from being employed as an apprentice by a licensed electrical
contractor or from engaging in electrical work under the employ of an
electrical contractor, provided that such person shall be at all times under
the direct supervision and control of the licensed electrical contractor, and
provided that the licensed electrical contractor shall be fully and completely
responsible for all work or activities of that person in the performance of
electrical work. (Ord. 2817, 2-22-2011)
7-5-5: VALIDITY OF CHAPTER:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held
invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph, clause or provision, shall
not affect any of the other provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2817, 2-22-2011)
7-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or neglects to comply with the terms hereof, shall upon conviction, be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. The electrical commission may also
revoke the certificate of registration of any such person, firm or corporation
for a period not to exceed three (3) months. A separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed every day on which such person, firm or
corporation shall continue to operate in violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2992, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
7-6-1-1: Amendments To Plumbing Code
7-6-2: Fee Schedule
7-6-3: Fire Protection System
7-6-4: Penalty
7-6-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city, being marked and designated as the latest
edition of Illinois state plumbing code, as published by the Illinois
department of public health, and as may be amended from time to time, and
hereby is adopted as the plumbing code of the city for the control of plumbing
installations and alterations as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Illinois state
plumbing code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, verbatim, except the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 2993, 2-1-2016)
7-6-1-1: AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING CODE:
   (A)   Section 890.120 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 890.120 Definitions
      "Quick Closing Valves": A valve or faucet that closes automatically when
released or one that has fast action closing, or one that closes with (1/2) one
half turn or less.
   (B)   Section 890.180 is amended by adding a) 1) and 2) to read as follows:
      Section 890.180 Sewer And Water Pipe Installations
      a)
      1) Sewer trenching and/or tunneling not to exceed ten feet (10') total
distance.
      2) Ditches shall be left accessible for inspection of sewer and/or water
piping.
   (C)   Section 890.420 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 890.420 Pipe Cleanouts
      a) Location Of Cleanouts Within A Building Drain Or Building Sewer.
      1) Cleanouts shall be not more than 50 feet apart, including the
developed length of the cleanout pipe, in horizontal drainage lines of four (4)
inches or less size. Cleanouts shall be not more than 100 feet apart, including
the developed length of the cleanout pipe, in horizontal drainage lines of over
four (4) inches to ten (10) inches in size. Cleanouts shall not be more than
150 feet apart, including the developed length of the cleanout pipe, in
horizontal drainage lines exceeding ten (10) inches in size. For underground
drainage lines exceeding ten (10) inches in size, manholes instead of cleanouts
shall be provided and shall be located at intervals of not more than 150 feet.
   (D)   Section 890.510 is amended by adding a) 7) to read as follows:
      Section 890.510 Grease Interceptor Requirements
      a)
      7) All new or altered installations serving institutions or commercial
establishments in which grease, fats, culinary oil, or similar waste products
from kitchens or food processing areas, or in which grease, fats, or culinary
oils are wasted in connection with utensil, vat, dish, or floor cleaning
processes shall install grease interceptors. All waste lines and drains
carrying culinary oil, grease, or fats in the above type establishments shall
be directed to one or more interceptors before connecting to the plumbing
system. If interceptors are located outside the building, they shall be
accessible for maintenance purposes within ten (10) feet of the building,
   (E)   Section 890.750 is amended by adding c), d), and e) to read as
follows:
      Section 890.750 Hydro Massage/Whirlpool Bathtubs
      c) Manufacturer's Instructions. The product shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
      d) Access To Pump. Access shall be provided to circulation pumps in
accordance with the fixture or pump manufacturer's instructions. Where the
manufacturer's instructions do not specify the location and minimum size of
field-fabricated access openings, and where pumps are located more than 2 feet
(609mm) from the access opening, an 18-inch by 18-inch (457mm by 457mm) minimum
sized opening shall be installed. A door or panel shall be permitted to close
the opening. In all cases, the access opening shall be unobstructed and the
size necessary to permit the removal and replacement of the circulation pump.
      e) Leak Testing. Leak testing and pump operation shall be performed in
accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
   (F)   Section 890.1150 is amended by adding a) 5) to read as follows:
      Section 890.1150 Water Service Pipe Installation
      a)
      5) Combination services (fire and domestic) shall split outside the
building with an individual stop on the domestic service located a minimum of 5
feet (152.4cm) from the building.
   (G)   Section 890.1200 is amended by adding a) 1) to read as follows:
      Section 890.1200 Water Service Sizing
      a)
      1) In existing structures which have a 3/4" (1.905cm) water service and
the service is being replaced, 3/4" pipe may be used provided that the
building's water supply fixture unit count (WSFU) does not exceed appendix A
table N limits.
   (H)   Section 890.1210 is amended by adding j) to read as follows:
      Section 890.1210 Design Of A Building Water Distribution System
      j) All new family dwellings shall have provisions made for soft water
hookup, with three valves for bypass, except for outside lawn hydrants and cold
water in kitchen sinks with proper bypass. Connections and provisions shall be
made of properly sized and vented trap within five feet (5') distance of water
softener. Bypass connection for future use shall be capped. Exceptions must be
requested in writing to the building official and will be granted only after
inspection has been conducted.
   (I)   Section 890.1430 is amended by adding d) to read as follows:
      Section 890.1430 Stack Vents, Vent Stacks, Main Vents
      d) Minimum Size Of Stack Vent. Any structure in which a building drain is
installed/repaired shall have each stack vent or vent stack carried full size
to the roof and shall increase to a minimum of four (4) inches, 12 inches below
the roof line and 12 inches above the roof line.
   (J)   Section 890 Appendix A - Plumbing Materials, Equipment, Use
Restrictions And Applicable Standards is amended to read as follows:
      Section 890 Table A - Approved Building Drainage/Vent Pipe
      1) Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) pipe shall not be permitted.
      Section 890 Table A - Approved Materials For Building Sewer
      1) Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) pipe shall not be permitted.
      Section 890 Table A - Approved Materials For Water Service Pipe
      1) Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) pipe shall not be permitted.
      7) Galvanized steel pipe shall not be permitted.
   (K)   Section 890 Table B - Minimum Number Of Plumbing Fixtures is amended
to read as follows:
      Section 890 Table B - Minimum Number Of Plumbing Fixtures
      All facilities for employee use
      Other fixtures - 1 service sink per floor
(Ord. 2993, 2-1-2016)
7-6-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees shall be determined according to section
7-1-9 of this title. (Ord. 1633, 11-18-1991)
7-6-3: FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM:
Any fire protection system installed after the effective date hereof and
containing five (5) or more sprinkler heads must have a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device ("RPZ") approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross Connection Control Of The University Of Southern
California, American Waterworks Association, American Society Of Sanitary
Engineering, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation, and of a size approved by the water department included
in the system. (Ord. 1724, 4-5-1993)
7-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Illinois state
plumbing code, or fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any section
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 2993, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 7
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
7-7-1: Adoption Of International Property Maintenance Code
7-7-2: Amendments To Code
7-7-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city, being marked and designated as the international
property maintenance code, 2015 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and hereby is adopted as the property maintenance code of the city
for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
international property maintenance code are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter verbatim, except the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, prescribed in section
7-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2994, 2-1-2016)
7-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Chapter 1, section 101.1 Title, of the property maintenance code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code Of The City Of Dixon, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Chapter 1, section 102.3 Application Of Other Codes, of the property
maintenance code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of title 7 of the city code, or such other applicable
title, chapter or section of the city code.
   (C)   Chapter 1, section 102.7.1 Plumbing Code, of the property maintenance
code of the city of Dixon shall be added to read as follows:
      102.7.1 Plumbing Code. All references to the international plumbing code
in this code shall be deemed to mean the most recent edition of the Illinois
plumbing code as adopted in title 7, chapter 6 of the city code.
   (D)   Chapter 1, section 103.1 General, of the property maintenance code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      103.1 General. The building and zoning department is hereby created and
the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official.
The building official of the city shall be the "code official" as herein used.
   (E)   Chapter 1, section 103.5 Fees, of the property maintenance code of the
city of Dixon is deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Chapter 1, section 106.4 Violation Penalties, of the property
maintenance code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      106.4 Violation Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who shall
violate any provision of this code shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more
than $750.00. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   Chapter 3, section 302.4 Weeds, of the property maintenance code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      302.4 Weeds. Weeds shall be regulated as set forth in section
4-7-5  of the city code.
   (H)   Chapter 3, section 304.14 Insect Screens, of the property maintenance
code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      304.14 Insect Screens. During the period from April 1 to October 31,
every door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm),
and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device
in good working condition.
   (I)   Chapter 6, section 602.2 Residential Occupancies, of the property
maintenance code of the city of Dixon shall read as follows:
      602.2 Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the city (-4°F). Cooking appliances shall not be used to
provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
      Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F
(-1°C) a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (J)   Chapter 6, section 602.3 Heat Supply, of the property maintenance code
of the city of Dixon shall read as follows:
      602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from September 1 to April 15 to maintain a room
temperature of not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and
toilet rooms.
      Exceptions:
         1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality (-4°F), maintenance of the minimum room
temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system is operating
at its full design capacity.
         2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C) a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (K)   Chapter 6, section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces, of the property
maintenance code of the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to April 15 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are
occupied.
      Exceptions:
         1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature considerations.
         2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
   (L)   Chapter 6, section 604.2 Service, of the property maintenance code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended to read as follows:
      604.2 Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance
with the national electric code (NFPA-70). Dwelling units shall be served by a
three wire, 120/240 volt, single phase electrical service having a rating of
not less than 100 amperes per dwelling unit.
   (M)   Chapter 8, Referenced Standards, of the property maintenance code of
the city of Dixon shall be amended as follows:
      Delete IPC-06, international plumbing code and replace with "Most recent
edition of the Illinois plumbing code."
(Ord. 2994, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 8
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-8-1: Adoption Of International Mechanical Code
7-8-2: Amendments To Code
7-8-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city, being marked and designated as the international
mechanical code, 2015, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., be
and hereby is adopted as the mechanical code of the city for the regulations
and control of mechanical systems as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the international
mechanical code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter verbatim except the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes prescribed in section
7-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2995, 2-1-2016)
7-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Chapter 1, section M-101.1 Title, of the international mechanical code
of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International
Mechanical Code Of The City Of Dixon, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Chapter 1, section M-106.5.2 Fee Schedule, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-106.5.2 Fee Schedule. Fees shall be determined according to section
7-1-9  of the Dixon city code.
   (C)   Chapter 1, section M-106.5.3 Fee Refunds, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-106.5.3 Fee Refunds. In the case of a revocation of a permit or
abandonment or discontinuance of a building permit, the portion of the work
actually completed shall be computed and any excess fee for the uncompleted
work may be returned to the permit holder upon written request. All plan
examination and permit processing fees and all penalties that have been imposed
on the permit holder under the requirements of this code shall first be
collected.
   (D)   Chapter 1, section M-108.1 Unlawful Acts, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-108.1 Unlawful Acts. Any person, found guilty of violating any
provision of these regulations or of any lawful order or notice from the
building official pertaining to these regulations, shall be subject to the
fines or penalties as prescribed by this code, or any section, rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, the performance of any act if required,
prohibited, or declared to be unlawful, or if a definite fine or penalty is not
provided for a violation thereof, any person, firm or corporation who shall be
convicted of a violation of any such section shall, for each offense, be fined
the sum of not less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00. Each day's violation
shall constitute a separate offense. The suspension or revocation of any
license, certificate, permit or other privilege, conferred by this
jurisdiction, shall not be regarded as a penalty for the purpose of this code.
   (E)   Chapter 1, section M-108.4 Violation Penalties, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-108.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair mechanical equipment or systems in
violation of an approved plan or directive of the building official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor
more than $750.00. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (F)   Chapter 1, section M-108.5 Stop Work Orders, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      M-108.5 Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the building official that
mechanical work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a
dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the
owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the
conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists,
the building official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to
stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after
having been served with a stop-work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $750.00.
   (G)   Chapter 3, section 301.11 Plumbing Connections, of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      301.11 Plumbing Connections. Potable water supply and building drainage
system connections to equipment and appliances regulated by this code shall be
in accordance with the latest edition of the Illinois state plumbing code.
   (H)   Section 309.1 is amended to read as follows:
      309.1 Space-Heating Systems. Interior spaces intended for human occupancy
shall be provided with active heating systems capable of maintaining a minimum
indoor temperature of 68°F (20°C) at a point 3 feet (914 mm) above floor on the
design heating day. The installation of portable space heaters shall not be
used to achieve compliance with this section.
      Exception: Interior spaces where the primary purpose is not associated
with human comfort.
   (I)   Section 508.1 is amended to read as follows:
      508.1 Makeup Air. Makeup air shall be supplied during the operation of
commercial kitchen exhaust systems that are provided for commercial cooking
appliances. The amount of makeup air supplied to the building from all sources
shall be approximately equal to the amount of exhaust air for all exhaust
systems for the building. The makeup air shall not reduce the effectiveness of
the exhaust system. Makeup air shall be provided by mechanical means.
Mechanical makeup air systems shall be automatically controlled to start and
operate simultaneously with the exhaust system. Makeup air intake opening
locations shall comply with section 401.4.
   (J)   Section 603.6.1.1 is amended to read as follows:
      603.6.1.1 Duct Length. Flexible air ducts shall be limited in length to 8
feet overall from termination point and contain no more than the equivalent of
one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees. All flexible air
ducts shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts shall only be used for
branches.
   (K)   Section 603.6.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
      603.6.2.1 Connector Length. Flexible air connectors shall be limited in
length to 8 feet overall from termination point and contain no more than the
equivalent of one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees. All
flexible air connectors shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts shall
only be used for branches.
   (L)   Section 801.2.2 is added to read as follows:
      801.2.2 Fuel Burning Appliances. PVC vent piping for a fuel burning
appliance that located in a concealed space shall be marked/labeled every 36
inches so as to distinguish it from plumbing or other piping.
   (M)   Section 918.7 is added to read as follows:
      918.7 Furnace Cement Or Welding. The use of furnace cement or welding for
the repair of furnace heat exchangers is prohibited.
   (N)   Section 929 is added to read as follows:
      Section 929
      Unvented Room Heaters
      929.1 General. Unvented room heaters and/or fireplaces are prohibited.
   (O)   Section 1002.1.1 is added to read as follows:
      1002.1.1 Installation. Water heaters greater than 5 gallons shall not be
elevated more than 18" above finished floor (AFF). When elevated, the appliance
shall be secured in an approved manner.
   (P)   Appendix A, Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs is added as part of this
code.
   (Q)   Chapter 15 Referenced Standards, of the international mechanical code
of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      1.   The referenced standard in chapter 15 of the international
mechanical code of the city of Dixon, titled IPC-15, under the heading ICC, is
hereby deleted and the following referenced standard is inserted in lieu
thereof:
      Illinois state plumbing code (latest edition).
(Ord. 2995, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 9
FENCES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Permit Required
7-9-2: Application For Permit
7-9-3: Permit Fee
7-9-4: Definitions
7-9-5: Unlawful Obstructions In Required Yard
7-9-6: Exception; Vision Clearance, Corner Lots
7-9-7: Permitted Obstructions
7-9-8: Barbed Wire Fences
7-9-9: Chainlink Fences Surrounding Schools And Recreational Areas
7-9-10: Parking Areas
7-9-11: Post, Supports And Braces
7-9-12: Retainer Wall
7-9-13: Storage
7-9-14: Variance
7-9-15: Variance Procedures
7-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct or erect any fence or other similar structure without
first securing a permit in writing from the building official of the city.
(Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
A permit shall be granted only after such person has:
   (A)   Applied in writing to the building official for said permit;
   (B)   Accompanied said application with a diagram stating the size of the
lot upon which the fence is to be placed and the location of the fence to be
constructed;
   (C)   Submitted the sum of five dollars ($5.00) with the application for
permit. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-3: PERMIT FEE:
In addition to the application fee required in section
7-9-2 of this chapter, the permit fees for such permit shall be as follows:
   (A)   All fences erected which are five hundred (500) linear feet or less;
five dollars ($5.00).
   (B)   All fences which are five hundred one (501) linear feet and greater;
two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per two hundred fifty (250) linear feet or
fraction thereof. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when repugnant to the
context of any provision.
FENCE: Any structure, wall, partition, or barrier erected to enclose a piece of
land or lot, whether partially or completely, or to divide a section of the
land or lot into distinct portions or to separate two (2) contiguous lots.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets.
LOT FRONTAGE: The boundary of a lot along a public street.
SPLIT RAIL FENCE: A decorative, hand split timber fence in which the top
horizontal rail is not more than thirty six inches (36") above the ground and
in which vertical rail supports are at least eight feet (8') apart.
STREET: A public way other than an alley.
YARD: An open space on a lot, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, and which extends along a lot line to a depth or width
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is
located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the real line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A yard lying between the main building and a side lot line and
extending from the required front yard, or from the front lot line, if there is
no required front yard, to required rear yard. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976; amd. Ord.
1637, 11-18-1991)
7-9-5: UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED YARD:
It shall be unlawful after the effective date of this chapter to construct or
erect any fence regardless of type of construction:
   (A)   Over six feet (6') in height above ground level in a rear or side yard
of an area zoned residential.
   (B)   Over thirty inches (30") in height above ground level in the front
yard of any lot unless the fence has not less than seventy percent (70%) of the
surface open or is a vertical type louvered fence in which case said fence may
not exceed thirty six inches (36") in height above the ground level.
   (C)   Within two feet (2') from any lot line abutting a street. (Ord. 873,
9-20-1976)
7-9-6: EXCEPTION; VISION CLEARANCE, CORNER LOTS:
No fence hereinafter erected in the front or street side yard of a corner lot
shall be:
   (A)   Over three feet (3') in height measured from the crown of the pavement
at the intersection of the two (2) streets. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
   (B)   Within thirty five feet (35') of the lot corner located at the
intersection of two (2) bordering streets, except that split rail fences are
allowed. (Ord. 1637, 11-18-1991)
   (C)   Within two feet (2') from the adjoining and contiguous city streets.
(Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-7: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful after the effective date hereof to construct or erect a
fence, the materials of which represent less than seventy percent (70%) of the
total surface area to a height not exceeding six feet (6') in the area to the
rear of a main building or buildings on a lot, provided said fence is no nearer
than ten feet (10') to the main building on any other lot, and further provided
that if any fence or portion thereof so constructed shall later be closer than
ten feet (10') to the main building on any other lot, the building official may
require that the fence or portion thereof be removed or reduced to a height not
exceeding four feet (4'). (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-8: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to erect or construct a fence equipped with or having
barbed wire spikes or electrical charges sufficient to cause shock or any
similar device in an area zoned residential or within seven feet (7') of the
ground level in an area zoned other than residential. The restrictions
contained in this section shall not apply to any property owned or leased by
the city. (Ord. 2365, 12-17-2001)
7-9-9: CHAINLINK FENCES SURROUNDING SCHOOLS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS:
This section shall not prohibit the erection of a chainlink fence over six feet
(6') in height enclosing schools, organized parks, public recreational areas,
day schools, daycare centers or property owned or leased by the city. (Ord.
2365, 12-17-2001)
7-9-10: PARKING AREAS:
All off street parking areas or lots containing four (4) or more parking spaces
must be screened by a solid fence or hedge not less than five feet (5') on
sides adjacent to residential property. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-11: POST, SUPPORTS AND BRACES:
It shall be unlawful to construct, erect or maintain any fence with a post,
backside supports or braces on the exterior side of the fence facing a
contiguous lot owned by one other than the owner of the fence. (Ord. 873, 9-20-
1976)
7-9-12: RETAINER WALL:
It shall be unlawful to construct or erect any fence on or upon a retaining
wall in which the combined height of the retaining wall and the fence exceeds
the maximum heights specified in this chapter. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-13: STORAGE:
It shall be unlawful in any nonresidential zoned area to construct or erect any
fence less than eight feet (8') in height above the ground level for enclosing
stored materials nor shall any stored materials exceed the height of the
enclosing fence. (Ord. 873, 9-20-1976)
7-9-14: VARIANCE:
A variance may be granted to permit the construction and maintenance of a
chainlink fence on a corner lot no more than forty two inches (42") in height
under the following conditions:
   (A)   The residence on the corner lot faces a street that is controlled by a
stop sign; and
   (B)   The fence may be in the front yard and required side yard and the
setback is not less than ten feet (10') from the lot corner at the intersection
of the two (2) bordering streets; and
   (C)   The fence is no more than forty two inches (42") in height. (Ord.
1592, 6-17-1991)
7-9-15: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   A variance may be granted by the zoning board of appeals and approved
by the city council where the literal application of this chapter would create
a particular hardship to the person proposing to construct a fence if the
following criteria are met:
      1.   The lot containing the yard to be fenced must be a corner lot, the
intersection of which has a traffic control sign.
      2.   The fence: a) cannot exceed three feet (3') in height above ground
level; b) must have not less than seventy percent (70%) of an open and visual
surface; and c) must be more than four feet (4') from any property line
adjoining a street or public roadway.
      3.   The granting of the variance would not be detrimental to the
property owners in the vicinity.
      4.   The hardship caused under a literal interpretation of this code to
the property owner requesting to construct the fence is due to conditions
unique to that property and does not apply generally to other property owners
in the city.
      5.   The granting of the variance would not be contrary to the general
objectives of this chapter.
   (B)   No variation in any specific case shall be made by the council without
a hearing by the zoning board of appeals nor without a report having been made
by the board to the council, and every such report shall be accompanied by a
finding of fact specifying the reasons for the report.
Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals, the council, without further
public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may refer the
report back to the board for further consideration. Any proposed variation
which fails to receive the approval of four (4) members of the board shall not
be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the elected
members of the council.
   (C)   Notice of a public hearing of the zoning board of appeals to consider
a petitioner's application for a proposed variation from the requirements of
this chapter shall be given in the same manner as set forth in subsection
2-7-5 of this code.
   (D)   In granting a variance, the building official or the city council or
the zoning board of appeals may require additional conditions or restrictions
in the public interest necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter. (Ord. 1905, 9-5-1995)
CHAPTER 10
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
7-10-1: Purpose
7-10-2: Definitions
7-10-3: Base Flood Elevation
7-10-4: Duties Of The Building Official
7-10-5: Development Permit
7-10-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
7-10-7: Protecting Buildings
7-10-8: Subdivision Requirements
7-10-9: Public Health And Other Standards
7-10-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
7-10-11: Variances
7-10-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
7-10-13: Penalty
7-10-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
7-10-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city of
Dixon by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
7-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
7-10-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   (A)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building.
   (B)   Substantial improvement of an existing building.
   (C)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   (D)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects.
   (E)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences.
   (F)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface.
   (G)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or building to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Dixon, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Dixon, or that may be annexed into
the city of Dixon, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city of Dixon are generally identified as such on panel
number(s) 65, 207, 209, 226, 228, 230 and 250 of the countywide flood insurance
rate map of Lee County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 17, 2016. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding
as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Lee County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Dixon or that may be annexed into
the city of Dixon are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
map prepared for Lee County by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 17, 2016.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Rock River, Fargo Creek, Plum Creek
and unnamed tributaries (1 and 2) to Plum Creek shall be as delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Lee County prepared by FEMA and dated
August 17, 2016. The floodways for each of the remaining floodplains of the
city of Dixon shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   (C)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
7-10-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size; and
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage during a ten (10) year period equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings" (see definition).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during a ten (10) year period in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements:
Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   (B)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010; amd. Ord. 3004, 4-4-2016)
7-10-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Rock River, Fargo
Creek, Plum Creek and unnamed tributaries (1 and 2) to Plum Creek shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide "Flood Insurance
Study Of Lee County" prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 17, 2016. (Ord. 3004, 4-4-2016)
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
zone" or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Lee County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Lee
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-
2010)
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Lee County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city of Dixon, or that may be annexed into the city of Dixon, shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the "Flood Insurance Study Of Lee
County" prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated August
17, 2016. (Ord. 3004, 4-4-2016)
7-10-4: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The city of Dixon building official shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city of Dixon meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the building official shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with section
7-10-5 of this chapter;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
7-10-6 of this chapter;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
7-10-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
7-10-8 of this chapter;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
7-10-9 of this chapter;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
7-10-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
7-10-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
7-10-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building official. The building official shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
7-10-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   The cost of the project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the building
official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be higher
than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled after the
date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any
development located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and
hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood insurance rate map,
is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The building official shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
The building official shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The building
official shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
7-10-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot;
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure;
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile;
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel;
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit; and
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         (a)   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge;
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream;
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as not to cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris;
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated; and
         (f)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers;
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet
(10');
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50');
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line;
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water;
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible;
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill;
         (i)   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow; and
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         (a)   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures;
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures;
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit;
and
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings; provided that no changes
are made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is
not involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any head wall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection;
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures;
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed; and
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.);
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in subsection (A)8(a) of
this section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas provided all other conditions of this permit are met;
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 ;
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000');
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action;
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project;
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank;
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required;
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area;
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (k)   In the case of sea walls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing sea wall(s)
or gabion structure(s); and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance;
         (b)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988);
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property;
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material;
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel;
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions;
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review; and
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000');
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel;
         (c)   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site;
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure; and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge;
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.);
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities); and
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations;
         (b)   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR;
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks;
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway;
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition
number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure;
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition;
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction; and
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      1.   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
7-10-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
7-10-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet;
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten (10) year period. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section;
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten (10) year period. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section;
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.);
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year; and
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
7-10-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed;
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection (B) of this section; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Illinois
manufactured home installation code issued pursuant to 77 Illinois
administrative code section 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection (D) of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck;
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet;
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model; and
      10.   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable;
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area;
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet;
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning;
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010; amd. 2020
Code)
7-10-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The city council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
7-10-6 and
7-10-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
7-10-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
7-10-6 and
7-10-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
7-10-7 of this chapter;
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight; and
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-
2010)
7-10-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Dixon shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
7-10-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the city council.
The city council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of
section
7-10-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
7-10-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
7-10-6 and 7-10-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
7-10-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Dixon or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
7-10-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the building official may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
building official shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Dixon shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense;
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      4.   The city of Dixon shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
   (B)   The building official shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The building official is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension
of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate
the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to
resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation;
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Dixon from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-
2010)
7-10-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city council
to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program including:
ordinances 2073 passed 3-16-1998, 2100 passed 7-6-1998 and 2304 passed 3-5-
2001. However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2773, 2-1-2010)
CHAPTER 11
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-11-1: Adoption Of Code
7-11-2: Amendments To Code
7-11-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city of Dixon, being marked and designated as the
international existing building code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the existing building
code of the city of Dixon, in the state of Illinois, for regulating and
governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation
of existing buildings, including historic buildings, as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
existing building code on file in the office of the building official are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
7-11-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2996, 2-1-2016)
7-11-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The ICC international existing building code/2015 is amended to read as
follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 is amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Existing Building
Code Of Dixon, State Of Illinois, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Section 103 Department Of Building Safety, is deleted in its entirety.
   (C)   Section 105.2 Work Exempt From Permit, of the international existing
building code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
      Building:
      1.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      2.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      3.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, as
applicable in section 101.2, which are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, do
not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 925 l) and are installed entirely above ground.
      4.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes and not including service systems.
      5.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and
two-family dwellings.
      6.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support of group R-3, as applicable in section 101.2, and group U
occupancies.
      7.   Movable cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches
(1753 mm) in height.
      The remainder of section 105.2 shall remain unchanged.
   (D)   Section 109.3 is amended to read as follows:
      109.3 Required Inspections. The code official, upon notification, may
make the inspections set forth in sections 109.3.1 through 110.3.9. Where the
words "shall make" or "shall be made" appear in sections 109.3.1 through
109.3.9 they shall mean "may make or may be made".
   (E)   Chapter 1, section 113.4 Violation Penalties, of the international
existing building code of the city of Dixon is amended to read as follows:
      113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of
an approved plan or directive of the building official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and no more
than $750.00. Each day that a violation continues after due notice shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (F)   Section 410 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 410
      Accessibility
      410.1 General. Accessibility for existing buildings shall comply with the
applicable provisions of the Illinois accessibility code.
   (G)   Section 705 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      Section 705
      Accessibility
      705.1 General. A building, facility or element that is altered shall
comply with the applicable provisions of the Illinois accessibility code.
   (H)   Section 806 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      Section 806
      Accessibility
      806.1 General. A building, facility or element that is altered shall
comply with the applicable provisions of the Illinois accessibility code.
   (I)   Section 906 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      Section 906
      Accessibility
      906.1 General. A building, facility or element that is altered shall
comply with the applicable provisions of the Illinois accessibility code.
   (J)   Section 1012.8 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      1012.8 Accessibility. A building, facility or element that is undergoing
a change of occupancy shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
Illinois accessibility code.
   (K)   Section 1105 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      Section 1105
      Accessibility
      1105.1 General. Additions shall comply with the applicable provisions of
the Illinois accessibility code.
   (L)   Section 1204 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      Section 1204
      Accessibility
      1204.1 General. A building, facility or element that is altered shall
comply with the applicable provisions of the Illinois accessibility code.
   (M)   Section 1205.15 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      1205.15 Accessibility. A building, facility or element that is undergoing
a change of occupancy shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
Illinois accessibility code.
   (N)   1401.2 is amended as follows:
      1401.2 Applicability. Structures existing prior to 1985, (rest of section
remains unchanged).
(Ord. 2996, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 12
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
7-12-1: Adoption Of Code
7-12-2: Amendments To Code
7-12-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city of Dixon, being marked and designated as the
international energy conservation code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the energy conservation
code of the city of Dixon, in the state of Illinois, for regulating and
governing energy efficient building envelopes and installation of energy
efficient mechanical, lighting and power systems as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said energy
conservation code on file in the office of the building official are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
7-12-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2997, 2-1-2016)
7-12-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The ICC international energy conservation code/2015 is amended to read as
follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 is amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Energy Conservation
Code Of Dixon, State Of Illinois hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Section 101.2 is amended to read as follows:
      101.2 Scope. This code applies to residential and commercial buildings.
All buildings as defined by section 101.4 shall comply with the state of
Illinois public act 096-0778, energy efficient building act.
   (C)   Section 104.1 is amended to read as follows:
      104.1 General. Construction or work for which a permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the code official. The code official, upon
notification, may make the inspections set forth in sections 104.2 through
104.7.
   (D)   Section 108.4 is amended to read as follows:
   108.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more
that $750.00. Each day that a violation continues after due notice shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2997, 2-1-2016; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 13
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
7-13-1: Adoption Of Code
7-13-2: Amendments To Code
7-13-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
building official of the city of Dixon, being marked and designated as the
international fuel gas code, 2015 edition, including appendix chapters A, B, C
and D, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted
as the fuel gas code of the city of Dixon, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas fired appliances as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said fuel gas code on file in the office of the
building official are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section 7-13-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2998, 2-1-
2016)
7-13-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The ICC international fuel gas code/2015 is amended to read as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 is amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fuel Gas Code Of
Dixon, State Of Illinois, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Section 103 Department Of Inspection is deleted in its entirety.
   (C)   Section 106.6.2 is amended to read as follows:
      106.6.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for work shall be as set forth in the fee
schedule of the city of Dixon code of ordinances.
   (D)   Section 108.4 is amended to read as follows:
      108.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter, or repair mechanical work equipment or systems in
violation of approved construction documents or directive of the code official,
or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall
be subject to penalties within the limits provided in state and local laws and
punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $750.00. Each
day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (E)   Section 108.5 is amended to read as follows:
      108.5 Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the code official that
mechanical work is being done contrary to the provision of this code or in a
dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the
owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the
conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists,
the code official shall not be required to give written notice prior to
stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
for a fine of not less than $100.00 and no more than $750.00.
   (F)   Section 402.6 is amended to read as follows:
      402.6 Maximum Design Operating Pressure. The maximum design operating
pressure for piping systems 1 pound per square inch gauge (psig) (34kPa gauge)
or greater shall be welded.
   (G)   Section 403.10.4, 1 is to read amended as follows:
      1.   Threaded fittings in sizes larger than 2 inches shall not be used.
   (H)   Section 404.2.1 is added to read as follows:
      404.2.1 Prohibited Use. Corrugated stainless steel tubing (CSST) shall
not be installed outdoors.
   (I)   Section 404.3.1 is added to read as follows:
      404.3.1 Prohibited Use Underground. Corrugated stainless steel tubing
(CSST) shall not be used underground.
   (J)   Section 404.9.1. is added to read as follows:
      404.9.1 Roof Locations. Gas piping installed on roof surfaces shall be
painted yellow. Paint and application method shall be approved by the code
official.
   (K)   Section 404.13.1 is added to read as follows:
      404.13.1 Separation. Exterior gas piping and electric lines underground
shall be horizontally separated a minimum of 12" (304mm).
   (L)   Section 409.4.1 is added to read as follows:
      409.4.1 Service Valves. Service valves installed within 24" (61 cm) of
the regulator, shall have no more than three screwed connections.
   (M)   Section 503.5.5 - 4 is amended to read as follows:
      4.   For sizing a chimney venting system connected to appliances using
mechanical draft, the effective area of the chimney flue shall not be greater
than two sizes over the effective area required for the appliances.
(Ord. 2998, 2-1-2016)
TITLE 8
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Fire Department Established
8-1-2: Appointments
8-1-3: Qualifications
8-1-4: Period Of Instruction (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-1-5: Fire Chief; Powers; Removal
8-1-6: Duty To Devote Entire Time To Office
8-1-7: Chief Custodian Of Property
8-1-8: Causes Of Fires; Damages; Records
8-1-9: Chief's Yearly Report
8-1-10: Powers Of Chief At Fire
8-1-11: May Remove Property
8-1-12: Absence Of Chief
8-1-13: Disconnection Of Electric And Water Supply
8-1-14: Duties Of Subordinates
8-1-15: Interference
8-1-16: Report Of Improper Conduct
8-1-17: Assignment Of Hours Of Duty
8-1-18: Janitor Service (Rep. by Ord. 2923, 8-19-2013)
8-1-19: Breaches Of Duty (Rep. by Ord. 2923, 8-19-2013)
8-1-20: (Rep. by Ord. 606, 1-28-1969)
8-1-21: Volunteer Fire Department
8-1-22: Conformance Of Union Contracts; Fire Personnel (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-1-1: FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There is hereby established a fire department, which shall be under
the jurisdiction and control of the city manager. The head of the fire
department shall be the chief of the fire department, who shall be appointed by
the city manager for an indefinite period of time. The fire department shall
include such positions as set forth in subsection (B) and such number of
firemen and other employees as the council may determine necessary. (Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (B)   The Fire Department shall embrace the Chief of the Fire Department, a
Deputy Chief, three (3) Fire Captains, three (3) Fire Lieutenants, and such
number of firemen as the Council may determine to be necessary. (Ord. 2923, 8-
19-2013; amd. 2020 Code)
8-1-2: APPOINTMENTS:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the City Manager for an
indefinite period of time. He or she shall, before he or she enters upon the
duties of his or her office, take and sign the oath prescribed by law for City
officials. The three (3) Fire Captains, three (3) Fire Lieutenants and all
other firemen shall be appointed by the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners
of the City as provided by law. The Chief of the Fire Department may, from time
to time, appoint from the ranks of the three (3) Fire Captains or three (3)
Fire Lieutenants a Deputy Chief to perform such administrative duties as may be
prescribed from time to time by the Chief of the Fire Department. (Ord. 2964,
4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
8-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   (A)   No person shall be appointed as Chief of the Fire Department unless
first satisfactorily completing such tests as may be required by the Council.
(Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (B)   No person shall be appointed or employed as Chief of the Fire
Department, Deputy Chief, Captain, Lieutenant or in any other capacity as a
fireman who does not comply with the requirements as stated in article II of
the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners of the
City. Any person receiving an appointment or being employed as Chief of the
Fire Department shall, within six (6) months after such appointment or
employment, establish and continually maintain his or her domicile within the
geographic boundaries of Community Unit School District #170 (also known as the
Dixon Public School District). All other persons appointed or employed as a
fireman shall, within six (6) months after such appointment or employment,
establish his or her domicile within five (5) miles of the City limits of
Dixon, Illinois. Any person failing to adhere to this subsection shall be
discharged. (Ord. 3067, 11-6-2017)
8-1-4: PERIOD OF INSTRUCTION:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-1-5: FIRE CHIEF; POWERS; REMOVAL:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall, subject to the jurisdiction
and control of the City manager, have the management and control of the fire
department. All regulations and orders thereof shall be promulgated through the
chief of the fire department. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff. 5-4-2015)
   (B)   The chief of the fire department may be removed or discharged by the
city manager; provided, that the city manager shall file with the council the
reasons therefor and such removal or discharge shall not become effective
unless confirmed by a majority vote of the council. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015; amd. 2020 Code)
8-1-6: DUTY TO DEVOTE ENTIRE TIME TO OFFICE:
The chief of the fire department shall devote his entire time to the discharge
of the duties of his office, except that time designated and approved by the
commissioner of public health and safety with the consent of the council, for
other employment or duties. (Ord. 606, 1-28-1969)
8-1-7: CHIEF CUSTODIAN OF PROPERTY:
The chief of the fire department shall have the custody of the engines,
buildings and rooms, trucks, ladders, fire alarm system and all other property
and equipment belonging to the fire department. (1950 Code)
8-1-8: CAUSES OF FIRES; DAMAGES; RECORDS:
The chief of the fire department shall make, or cause to be made, an inquiry
into the cause of all fires which may occur in the city and the damage, if any,
sustained; and shall cause a record to be kept thereof. (Ord. 606, 1-28-1969)
8-1-9: CHIEF'S YEARLY REPORT:
A report shall be submitted by the chief of the fire department to the council
thirty (30) days prior to the ending of the city's fiscal year. This report
shall contain the condition of the fire apparatus and the buildings in which
the same are kept and what future alterations, additions, improvements or
repairs that are necessary for the effective operation of the fire department.
(Ord. 606, 1-28-1969)
8-1-10: POWERS OF CHIEF AT FIRE:
The chief of the fire department may prescribe certain limits in the vicinity
of any fire within which no persons excepting firemen and policemen and those
admitted by order of any officer of the fire department shall be permitted to
come. (1950 Code)
8-1-11: MAY REMOVE PROPERTY:
The chief of the fire department shall have the power to cause the removal of
any property whenever it shall become necessary for the preservation of such
property from fire or to prevent the spreading of fire or protect the adjoining
property. (1950 Code)
8-1-12: ABSENCE OF CHIEF:
In the case of the absence or temporary disability of the chief of the fire
department, the deputy chief shall take charge of the organization and he/she
shall have and exercise all of the powers of the chief of the fire department.
If both the chief of the fire department and the deputy are absent or
temporarily disabled, the senior captain shall take charge of the organization
and he/she shall have and exercise all of the powers of the chief of the fire
department. (Ord. 2923, 8-19-2013)
8-1-13: DISCONNECTION OF ELECTRIC AND WATER SUPPLY:
The chief of the fire department shall have the power and authority, whenever
the safety of the public or of property in the city is endangered by fire, or
other casualty, to cause to be disconnected temporarily, or for such period of
time as is in his judgment necessary for public safety, any and all electric
wires and all water pipes and connecting private property with the public water
supply system in the city. (1950 Code)
8-1-14: DUTIES OF SUBORDINATES:
The duties of all members of the fire department below the rank of chief shall
be such as are now or may hereafter be prescribed by the rules and regulations
of the department or such as may be assigned to them by the chief. (1950 Code)
8-1-15: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall interfere, or attempt to interfere, with the chief of the fire
department or any of his assistants in the discharge of their duties or shall,
without the permission of the chief of the fire department, connect or attempt
to connect any electric wire or water pipe or connection after it has been
disconnected by the chief of the fire department or under his order. (1950
Code)
8-1-16: REPORT OF IMPROPER CONDUCT:
It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to promptly report to
the city manager and to the board of fire and police commissioners any member
of the fire department who may be guilty of any charges listed under article
VI, section 4 of the rules and regulations of the board of fire and police
commissioners of the city of Dixon. (Ord. 606, 1-28-1969; amd. 2020 Code)
8-1-17: ASSIGNMENT OF HOURS OF DUTY:
The chief of the fire department, under the direction of the city manager,
shall arrange and assign the hours of duty of the firemen. (1950 Code)
No fireman shall be required to work a total of more than fifty six (56) hours
in any one week. The hours, or schedule of hours, shall be worked out by the
chief of the fire department under the direction of the city manager in
accordance with necessity and the efficient operation of the fire department.
(Ord. 213, 11-19-1957)
The members of the fire department are hereby granted pay increases based upon
their periods of service and upon their base pay in the amount of one percent
(1%) per year, with maximum of twenty (20) years. (Ord. 146, 5-22-1956; amd.
2020 Code)
8-1-18: JANITOR SERVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2923, 8-19-2013)
8-1-19: BREACHES OF DUTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2923, 8-19-2013)
8-1-20: (Rep. by Ord. 606, 1-28-1969)
8-1-21: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established in the city a volunteer fire department to be
comprised of not more than twenty-four (24) trained volunteer firefighters. The
training and designation of rank of the volunteer fire department shall be
under the supervision of the city manager and the fire chief. The volunteer
firefighters shall be paid as approved from time to time by the city council.
(2020 Code)
8-1-22: CONFORMANCE OF UNION CONTRACTS; FIRE PERSONNEL:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Escapes Required On Certain Buildings (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-2: Public Buildings; Doors To Swing Outward (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-3: Aisles To Be Kept Open (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-4: Exits Required In Public Buildings (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-5: Exits To Be Marked (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-6: Storage Of Inflammable Liquids (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-7: Storage Of Inflammable Liquids; Exemption (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-8: Dry Cleaning (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-9: Key Lock Box System
8-2-10: False Alarms
8-2-1: ESCAPES REQUIRED ON CERTAIN BUILDINGS:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-2: PUBLIC BUILDINGS; DOORS TO SWING OUTWARD:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-3: AISLES TO BE KEPT OPEN:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-4: EXITS REQUIRED IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-5: EXITS TO BE MARKED:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-6: STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-7: STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; EXEMPTION:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-8: DRY CLEANING:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-2-9: KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM:
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location as required by the Dixon fire
chief:
      1.   Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm
system or automatic suppression system, or such structures that are secured in
a manner that restricts access during an emergency; and
      2.   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access to
locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units; and
governmental structures and nursing care facilities on the effective date
hereof.
      3.   This subsection (A) shall not apply to owner occupied one- and two-
family dwellings.
   (B)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have a
key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit. All structures in existence on the effective date hereof and subject to
this section shall have one year from the effective date hereof to have a key
lock box installed and operational.
   (C)   The key box system shall be of a UL type and approved by the fire
chief of the city. The key lock box shall contain keys to gain necessary access
as required by the fire chief and shall be installed in a manner approved by
the fire chief.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (E)   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the lock box system.
   (F)   Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code for any violation of this section, provided that the minimum
fine for a conviction for a violation of this section shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2178, 9-7-1999)
8-2-10: FALSE ALARMS:
   (A)   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, and words shall have the meaning given herein:
 
ALARM     Persons acting as agents for the alarm user or for occupants of the alarm user's
AGENT:    property who are conducting repairs, testing, installation, altering or maintaining
          any system supervised by the automatic fire alarm system.
          Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity, which engages in the
ALARM     activity of altering, installing, leasing, maintaining, repairing, replacing,
BUSINESS: selling or servicing of automatic fire alarm systems or which causes any of these
          activities to take place.
          The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of
ALARM     any kind in control of the premises or property where an automatic fire alarm system
USER:     is installed. Automatic fire alarm systems in separate structures are to be counted
          as separate systems, even though owned by the same person or entity.
          An assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged, designed or used to
          signal the occurrence of a fire emergency, medical emergency or other event
          requiring urgent attention and to which Dixon Fire Department personnel and
AUTOMATIC equipment are expected to respond. This includes those through which public safety
FIRE      personnel are notified directly of such signals through electronic signal devices or
ALARM     are notified indirectly by way of third persons who monitor the alarm systems and
SYSTEM:   who report such signals to the Dixon Fire Department or its agents. Also included
          are those designed to register a signal, which is so audible, visible or in other
          ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure or facility as to alert
          persons beyond the zoning lot where the signal is located. Those persons in turn may
          notify the Fire Department or its agents and generate a response.
          An alarm signal within the City eliciting a response by the Dixon Fire Department or
          an authorized mutual aid Fire Department when a situation requiring such a response
          does not in fact exist. This shall include activation of the automatic fire alarm
          system or any system supervised by this system due to mechanical or electronic
          failure, malfunction, improper installation, failure to properly maintain or the
          negligence of the alarm user or the alarm user's employee or agent.
          False Alarms shall not include alarms determined to be of the following nature:
             (a)   Fire or smoke are present at the location as verified by the Dixon Fire
FALSE     Department.
ALARM -      (b)   Malicious acts of persons not under the control of the alarm user.
GENERAL:     (c)   Criminal activity.
             (d)   Alarms caused by tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, or natural disasters.
             (e)   Physical damage to the property by lightning.
             (f)   Telephone line malfunction verified to the Dixon Fire Department by an
          authorized telephone company supervisor within seven (7) days of the occurrence.
             (g)   Plumbing or electrical malfunctions unrelated to the fire protection
          systems.
             (h)   Alarms occurring on a repeated basis without an apparent cause within the
          first thirty (30) days after the installation or renovation of the automatic alarm
          system provided that the installation complies with all applicable codes.
FALSE     An alarm signal within the City eliciting a response by the Dixon Fire Department or
ALARM -   an authorized mutual aid Fire Department due to negligence on the part of an alarm
NEGLIGENT business, alarm agent, alarm user or the alarm user's employee or agent. Said
- FAILURE negligence arising from that party's failure to notify the proper alarm-monitoring
TO        agency in conjunction with testing, repairing, altering or maintaining the automatic
NOTIFY:   fire alarm system or any system or device supervised by the automatic fire alarm
          system.
 
   (B)   False Alarm Fines:
      1.   False Alarm - General: Any alarm user whose automatic fire alarm
system generates three (3) or more false alarms as defined in this section as
False Alarm - General, in a calendar year, shall be assessed a fine in
accordance with the following:
 
False Alarms, 3 to 4:     $125.00 per response, beginning with the third
                          response
False Alarms, 5 to 7:     $250.00 per response, beginning with the fifth
                          response
False Alarms, 8 to 9:     $500.00 per response, beginning with the eighth
                          response
False Alarms, 10 or more: $750.00 per response, beginning with the tenth
                          response
 
      2.   False Alarm - Negligent - Failure to Notify: Any alarm user whose
automatic fire alarm system generates a false alarm as defined in this section
as a False Alarm - Negligent - Failure to Notify shall be assessed a fine of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per response. These will not be counted as
part of the alarm users calendar year total.
      3.   Penalty For Non-Payment Of Fines: Upon the occurrence of a covered
False Alarm - General or False Alarm - Negligent - Failure to Notify, the Dixon
Fire Department shall invoice the alarm user for payment of the applicable
fine. Invoices shall be paid within sixty (60) days.
   (C)   Penalty For Non-Payment Of Fines: Upon the occurrence of a covered
False Alarm - General or False Alarm - Negligent - Failure to Notify, the Dixon
Fire Department shall invoice the alarm user for payment of the applicable
fine. Invoices shall be paid within sixty (60) days. If the alarm uses fails or
refuses to pay such invoice within said sixty (60), the alarm user shall be
deemed in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
the penalty set forth in section
1-4-1  of this code. The alarm user shall also be responsible for all costs of
re-inspection.
   (D)   Notification: The Dixon Fire Department shall notify the alarm user
via U.S. Mail of each instance wherein a False Alarm - General or a False Alarm
- Negligent - Failure to Notify has been recorded. In the case of a second
recorded False Alarm - General in any one calendar year, the notice shall
further inform the alarm user that any additional False Alarms - General shall
result in the imposition of False Alarm fines as set forth herein. In the case
of a False Alarm - Negligent - Failure to Notify the written notice shall
indicate the imposition of the false alarm fine set forth herein.
   (E)   Out Of Service Alarm: If an automatic fire alarm system gives three
(3) or more false alarms within a forty-eight (48) hour period, the Dixon Fire
Department reserves the right to place out-of-service the automatic fire alarm
system and may require a fire watch at its discretion. Any automatic fire alarm
system placed out-of-service under this section must be repaired and placed
back in service within the time period specified by the Dixon Fire Department.
(Ord. 3311, 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Adoption Of International Fire Code
8-3-1-1: Additions, Insertions, Deletions And Amendments
8-3-2: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention (Rep. 2020 Code)
8-3-3: Modifications
8-3-4: Appeals
8-3-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
8-3-5-1: Burning
8-3-6: Penalties
8-3-7: Fire Prevention Inspection Fees
8-3-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The ICC International Fire Code 2021, as recommended and maintained by the
International Code Council, Inc. including Appendix A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I,
K and L is hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and amendments
contained in Section
8-3-1-1. (Ord. 2990, 2-1-2016; amd. Ord. 3368, 8-21-2023)
8-3-1-1: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   (A)   Section 101 is amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of The
City of Dixon, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Section 102.7.1 is amended to read as follows:
      102.7.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code
and referenced codes and standards, the stricter of the codes and standards
shall apply, or as approved by the fire code official.
   (C)   Section 103.1 is amended to read as follows:
      103.1 Creation of agency. The City of Dixon Fire Department is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the fire code
official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation,
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Section 103.4 is added to read as follows:
      103.4 Restriction of employees. An official or employee connected with
the enforcement of this code, except whose only connection is that of a member
of the board of appeals established under the provisions of section 111 of this
code, shall not be engaged in, or directly or indirectly connected with, the
furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration
or maintenance of a building, or the preparation of construction documents
thereof, unless that person is the owner of the building; nor shall such
officer or employee engage in any work that conflicts with official duties or
with the interests of the department.
   (E)   Section 104.1.2 is added to read as follows:
      104.1.2 Automatic Appeals. In any case where orders or approvals by the
fire code official and Director of the Fire Prevention Bureau are not in full
agreement, the matter shall be resolved in the following manner: The case shall
be reviewed by the Fire Chief. If agreement cannot be reached, the matter shall
be referred to the City Manager for review and decision. The decision of the
City Manager may then be appealed to the Building Board of Appeals pursuant to
Section 113.
   (F)    Section 105.5.12 is amended to read as follows:
      105.5.12 Cutting and welding. When required by the fire code official, an
operational permit is required to conduct cutting or welding operations within
the jurisdiction.
   (G)   Section 105.5.34 is amended to read as follows:
      105.5.34 Open burning. An operational permit is required for the kindling
or maintaining of an open fire or a fire on any public street, alley, road, or
other public or commercial ground. Instructions and stipulations of the permit
shall be complied with.
      Exception: Recreational fires, as defined in City of Dixon open burning
ordinance, which are located on private residential ground.
   (H)   Section 105.6.24 is deleted and replaced as follows:
      105.6.24 Temporary membrane structures, canopies and tents. A
construction permit is required to construct an air-supported temporary
membrane structure and tent having an aggregate area in excess of 120 square
feet. A construction permit is required to construct a canopy having an
aggregate area in excess of 400 square feet.
      Exceptions:
      1.   One day use in conjunction with residential uses unless the tent,
canopy requires electrical permit and inspections due to use of electric
equipment.
      2.   Tents used exclusively for private recreational purposes.
      3.   Tents or canopies used in conjunction with funeral services.
      4.   Tents open on all sides which comply with all of the following:
         a.   Individual tents shall have a maximum size of 400 square feet.
         b.   The aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without
a fire break clearance of not less than 12 feet shall not exceed 700 square
feet total.
         c.   Tents, canopies or membrane structures shall not be located
within 20 feet of lot lines, buildings or other tents or membrane structures,
parked vehicles or combustion engines unless approved by the fire code
official.
   (I)   Section 109.3 is amended to read as follows:
      109.3 Recordkeeping. A record of periodic inspections, tests, servicing
and other operations and maintenance shall be maintained on the premises or
other approved location for not less than 3 years, or a different period of
time where specified in this code or referenced standards. Records shall be
made available for inspection by the fire code official, and a copy of the
records shall be provided to the fire code official on request. The fire code
official is authorized to prescribe the form and format of such recordkeeping.
The fire code official is authorized to require that certain required records
be filed with the fire code official.
      109.3.1 Records submittal. All required records are to be submitted to
the fire code official through a process as prescribed by the fire code
official.
   (J)   Section 109.7 is added to read as follows:
      109.7 Debris as nuisance. Debris remaining at the scene of a fire after
the site has been authorized for removal by the fire department shall
constitute a nuisance. Property owner shall be notified of said nuisance and,
if not rectified to standards established by City of Dixon Official, said
debris shall be removed by the city or its duly authorized agent. Costs for
removal shall become a lien against the property or other actions permitted by
law.
   (K)   Section 112.4 is deleted and replaced as follows:
      112.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties within the limits provided in state and local laws and punishable by
a fine of not less than $150.00 and not more than $750.00 dollars. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (L)   Section 307.2 is amended to read as follows:
      307.2 Permit Required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire code
official in accordance with Section 105.5 prior to kindling a fire for
recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices, prevention
or control of disease or pests. Application for such approval shall only be
presented by and permits issued to the owner of the land on which the fire is
to be kindled.
   (M)   Section 307.4.1 is deleted.
   (N)   Section 307.4.4 is added to read as follows:
      307.4.4 Materials for Recreational Fires. Fuel for all recreational fires
shall consist only of seasoned dry firewood and other material approved by the
fire code official. The fire shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper.
The fire shall not be utilized for waste disposal purposes, and the fuel shall
be chosen to minimize the generation of air contaminants.
   (O)   Section 307.5 is amended to read as follows:
      307.5 Attendance. Open burning, recreational fires and use of portable
outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly attended until the fire is extinguished.
Not fewer than one portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a
minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-extinguishing equipment, such
as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for
immediate utilization.
   (P)   Section 308.1.6.3 is amended to read as follows:
      308.1.6.3 Sky lanterns. A person shall not release or cause to be
released a sky lantern or any other airborne flame producing device.
   (Q)   Section 308.4.1 is amended to read as follows:
      308.4.1 Group R-2 dormitories. Candles, incense and similar open-flame-
producing items shall not be allowed in Group R-2 dormitory occupancies.
   (R)   Section 313.2 is amended to read as follows:
      313.2 Group R occupancies. Vehicles shall not be stored within Group R
buildings.
      Exception: Areas of Group R buildings designed in accordance with 2021
IBC, or applicable code at the time of construction, for vehicle storage.
   (S)   Section 505.3 is added to read as follows:
      505.3 Strip Malls. When a strip mall has multiple tenant spaces and a
dedicated sprinkler control/fire alarm room, each alarm room shall have its own
street address.
   (T)   Section 506.1.2 is amended to read as follows:
      506.1.2 Key boxes for fire service elevator keys. Key boxes provided for
fire service elevator keys shall comply with Section 506.1 and all of the
following:
      1.   The key box shall be compatible with an existing rapid entry key box
system in use in the jurisdiction and approved by the fire code official.
   (U)   Section 506.3 is added to read as follows:
      506.3 Visual Alarm Device. In occupancies with a fire alarm system and/or
a sprinkler system, a Visual Alarm Device shall be required by the key box to
aid in key location. Said Visual Alarm Device shall be red in color.
   (V)   Section 507.5.1.2 is added to read as follows:
      507.5.1.2 Private Fire Hydrants. Where a private fire hydrant water
supply is provided from a building or structure, a room constructed in
accordance with 2021 IBC shall be provided with a minimum fire separation of 2
hours and structurally capable to resist early collapse. Provided rooms shall
be accessible from no less than one exterior door and heated to a minimum of 50
degrees Fahrenheit in accordance with 2021 International Mechanical Code.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Buildings provided throughout with an automatic fire suppression
sprinkler system shall provide a room with a minimum fire separation of 1 hour.
      2.   Separate building or structure provided for the sole purpose of
private fire water service constructed in accordance with this code, 2021
International Building Code, and referenced NFPA standards
   (W)   Section 507.5.3 is amended to read as follows:
      507.5.3 Private fire service mains and water tanks. Private fire service
mains and water tanks shall be periodically inspected, tested and maintained in
accordance with NFPA 25 at the following intervals:
      1.   Private fire hydrants of all types: Inspection annually and after
each operation; flow test and maintenance annually.
      2.   Fire service main piping: Inspection of exposed, annually; flow test
every 5 years.
      3.   Fire service main piping strainers: Inspection and maintenance after
each use. Records of inspections, testing and maintenance shall be maintained
and a copy submitted to the City of Dixon Fire Department in accordance with
section 109.3.1.
   (X)   Section 901.2.2 is added to read as follows:
      901.2.2 Fire Alarm Installation Personnel Qualifications. Manual fire
alarm, automatic fire detection systems, and emergency communication systems
installation personnel shall be certified to a NICET Fire Alarm level II or
higher, or IMSA Interior Fire Alarm level II. A trainee to trainer ratio of 2:
1 is allowed. Qualified installer shall be on site during all fire alarm
installation activities.
   (Y)   Section 901.4.8 is added to read as follows:
      901.4.8 Fire and Life Safety Protection Systems Labels, Tags, and
Information Plates: All required identification labels, tags, and information
plates for fire and life safety protection systems shall be approved and
constructed of material designed to resist weathering or loss of required
information due to environmental exposures. All required labels on control
valves and system deactivation switches shall be reflective with lettering
contrasting to the background.
   (Z)   Section 901.6.3.2 is added to read as follows:
      901.6.3.2 Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems Records submittal. All
required service and maintenance records are to be submitted to the fire code
official through a submittal process as prescribed by the fire code official.
   (AA)   Section 901.6.4 is added to read as follows:
      901.6.4 Fire Alarm Service Personnel Qualifications. Manual fire alarm,
automatic fire detection systems, and emergency communication systems
inspection, testing, and maintenance personnel shall be certified in NICET
Inspection and Testing of Fire Alarm Systems, IMSA Interior Fire Alarm level I,
or specialized training from the fire alarm system manufacturer. A trainee to
trainer ratio of 2:1 is allowed. Qualified personnel shall be on site during
all fire alarm inspection, testing, and maintenance activities.
   (BB)   Section 901.6.5 is added to read as follows:
      901.6.5 Fire Sprinkler Suppression System Inspection, Testing, and
Maintenance Personnel Qualifications. Annual Fire sprinkler suppression system
inspection, testing, and maintenance personnel shall be NICET III certified or
completed a trade journeyman course. A trainee to trainer ratio of 2:1 is
allowed. Qualified personnel shall be on site during all sprinkler suppression
system inspection, testing, and maintenance activities.
   (CC)   Section 901.6.6 is added to read as follows:
      901.6.6 Evidence of Qualification. Life safety and fire protections
installation and service personnel must keep on their person evidence of
qualifications while performing their duties. Evidence of qualification must be
presented at the request of the fire code official.
      1.   If evidence of qualification cannot be produced when requested by
the fire code official, the fire code official may issue a stop work order,
issue fines, and require corrective action by the responsible contractor or
property owner.
   (DD)   Section 903.2.4.2 is amended to read as follows:
      903.2.4.2 New and existing Group F-1 distilled spirits. An automatic
sprinkler system shall be provided throughout a building or structure with a
Group F-1 fire area used for the manufacture of distilled spirits.
   (EE)   Section 903.2.9.3 is amended to read as follows:
      903.2.9.3 New and existing Group S-1 distilled spirits or wine. An
automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout a building or structure
with a Group S-1 fire area used for the bulk storage of distilled spirits or
wine.
   (FF)   Section 903.2.10 is amended to read as follows:
      903.2.10 Group S-2 parking garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided throughout buildings classified as parking garages where any of the
following conditions exist:
      Items 1 through 3, no changes. New item 4 as follows:
      4.   Any new parking garages with electric vehicle charging stations.
   (GG)   Section 903.2.10.3 is added to read as follows:
      903.2.10.3 Parking Garages. New sprinkler systems installed in any
parking garage shall be designed to a minimum hazard classification of Ordinary
Hazard 2.
   (HH)   Section 903.2.11.1 item 3 is added to read as follows:
      Section 903.2.11.1 Stories without openings.
      3.   An interior stairway that conforms to requirements of section 1005
with a fire separation assembly enclosure of not less than 1 hour, which has a
door directly to the exterior and the stairway does not connect more than 2
stories. The basement or windowless story floor level shall be 15 feet (4572
mm) or less vertically from the exterior door threshold level and door
threshold shall be within 10 feet (3048 mm) of grade. Interior stair doors or
openings shall be provided in each 50 linear feet (15,240 mm) or fraction
thereof on at least one side of the basement or windowless story.
   (II)   Section 903.3.8.4 is amended to read as follows:
      903.3.8.4 Supervision. Control valves shall not be installed between the
water supply and sprinklers unless the valves are of an approved indicating
type that are supervised and secured in the open position.
   (JJ)   Section 903.4.2.1 is added to read as follows:
      903.4.2.1 Strip Malls. Strip malls shall provide individual tenant space
notification to comply with IFC 907.1
   (KK)   Section 907.1.2.1 is added to read as follows:
      907.1.2.1 Qualifications. Shop drawings for fire alarm systems shall be
prepared by one of the following:
      1.   An Illinois licensed professional engineer with formal training in
fire alarm layout/design.
      2.   A holder of a valid NICET level III or higher certification in fire
alarm system layout, who is either employed by or hired by the fire alarm
installation contractor.
   (LL)   Section 907.1.4 is added to read as follows:
      907.1.4 Strip Malls. Fire alarm systems shall be capable of identifying a
fire alarm device activation or waterflow device activation in each tenant
space. An audio/ visual device shall be provided at the front entrance to each
tenant space to identify the location of an activated device(s).
   (MM)   Section 907.1.5 is added to read as follows:
      907.1.5 Visual Alarm Device. In occupancies with a fire alarm system and/
or sprinkler system, a visual alarm device shall be required by the key box to
aid in key location. Said visual alarm device shall be red in color.
   (NN)   Section 907.2.4 is amended to read as follows:
      907.2.4 Group F. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in
Group F occupancies where any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The Group F occupancy is two or more stories in height with a
combined fire area of 12,000 square feet or greater.
      2.   The Group F occupancy has an occupant load of 100 or more above or
below the lowest level of exit discharge.
      3.   The Group F occupancy has a combined occupant load of 300 or more.
      4.   The Group F occupancy is 12,000 square feet or greater and is
occupied by more than one tenant.
      Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appliances will activate
throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow.
   (OO)   Section 907.2.9. is amended to read as follows:
      907.2.9. Group R-2 and R-4. Fire alarm systems and smoke alarms shall be
installed in Group R-2 and R-4 occupancies as required in Sections 907.2.9.1
through 907.2.9.4.2
   (PP)   Section 907.2.9.4.1 is added to read as follows:
      907.2.9.4 Group R-4. Fire alarm systems and smoke alarms shall be
installed in Group R-4 occupancies as required in Sections 907.2.9.4.1 through
907.2.9.4.2.
   (QQ)   Section 907.2.9.4.1 is added to read as follows:
      907.2.9.4.1 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that
activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5
shall be installed in Group R-4 occupancies.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A manual fire alarm system is not required in buildings not more
than two stories in height where all individual sleeping units and contiguous
attic and crawl spaces to those units are separated from each other and public
or common areas by not less than 1-hour fire partitions and each individual
sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, egress court or yard.
      2.   Manual fire alarm boxes are not required throughout the building
where all of the following conditions are met:
      2.1.   The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
      2.2.   The notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water
flow.
      2.3.   A minimum of one manual fire alarm box is installed at an approved
location.
   (RR)   Section 907.2.9.4.2 is added to read as follows:
      907.2.9.4.2 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke
detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance
with Section 907.5 shall be installed throughout all interior corridors serving
sleeping units.
      Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in
buildings that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units and where
each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to
an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit.
   (SS)   Section 907.2.10 is deleted and replaced to read as follows:
      907.2.10 Group S. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in
Group S occupancies where any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The Group S occupancy is two or more stories in height.
      2.   The Group S occupancy has an occupant load of 100 or more above or
below the lowest level of exit discharge.
      3.   The Group S occupancy has a combined occupant load of 300 or more.
      4.   The Group S occupancy is 12,000 square feet or greater and is
occupied by more than one tenant.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appliances will activate
throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow.
      2.   Visible notification appliances are not required within individual
storage units under 1,000 square feet. (TT)   Section 907.6.3 is amended to
read as follows:
      907.6.3 Initiating Device Identification. The fire alarm system shall
identify the specific initiating device address, location, device type, floor
level where applicable and status including indication of normal, alarm,
trouble and supervisory status, as appropriate.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Fire alarm systems that only include fire alarm boxes, waterflow
initiating devices, and not more than 10 additional alarm-initiating devices.
      2.   Special initiating devices that do not support individual device
identification.
      3.   Fire alarm systems or devices that are replacing existing equipment.
   (UU)   Section 907.6.3.2 is added to read as follows:
      907.6.3.2 Separation of Fire Alarm and Security Alarm. The buildings fire
alarm system shall be a separate system from the buildings security/burglar
alarm system.
   (VV)   Section 907.6.4.3 is added to read as follows:
      907.6.4.3 Zones in Strip Malls. In strip malls, a separate zone by tenant
spaces shall be provided for each of the following types of alarm-initiating
devices where provided:
      1.   Smoke Detectors
      2.   Sprinkler waterflow devices.
      3.   Manual fire alarm boxes.
      4.   Other approved types of automatic fire protection systems.
   (WW)   Section 907.6.4.4 is added to read as follows:
      907.6.4.4 Strip Malls. Fire alarm systems shall be capable of identifying
a fire alarm device activation or waterflow device activation in each tenant
space. An audio/visual device shall be provided at the front entrance to each
tenant space to identify the location of an activated device(s).
   (XX)   Section 912.3 is deleted and replaced to read as follows:
      912.3 Fire Department Connections. On new construction or an existing
occupancy where an automatic sprinkler system is being installed, fire
department connections for automatic sprinkler systems shall consist of a 5-
inch Stortz connection.
   (YY)   Section 912.6 is deleted and replaced to read as follows:
      912.6 Backflow protection. A water supply serving a fire suppression
system shall be protected against backflow with a Reduced Pressure Zone (RPZ)
backflow device and comply with the requirements of Illinois Plumbing Code.
   (ZZ)   Section 915.7 is added to read as follows:
      915.7 Carbon Monoxide Alarms and Carbon Monoxide Systems. Carbon Monoxide
Alarms and Carbon Monoxide Systems shall be interconnected in the occupancy's
fire alarm system if one exists and shall comply with Section 915.1.1.
   (AAA)   Section 1103.5.3 is amended to read as follows:
      1103.5.3 Group I-2, Condition 2. In addition to the requirements of
Section 1103.5.2, existing building of Group I-2, Condition 2 occupancy shall
be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The automatic sprinkler system shall be
installed as established by a compliance plan submitted by the property owner
and approved by the fire code official.
   (BBB)   Section 1103.7.5.2 is amended to read as follows:
      1103.7.5.2 Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses manual fire alarm
system. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-
1 boarding and rooming houses.
      Exception:
      1.   Buildings less than two stories in height where all sleeping units,
attics and crawl spaces are separated by 1-hour fire-resistance-rated
construction and each sleeping unit has direct access to a public way, egress
court or yard.
      2.   Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and the occupant notification appliances
will activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow.
      3.   Not fewer than one manual fire alarm box is installed and an
approved location.
   (CCC)   Section 1103.7.5.1 is amended to read as follows:
      1103.7.5.1 Group R-1 hotel and motel manual fire alarm system. A manual
fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance
with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-1 hotels and motels
more than one story above or below the level of exit discharge or with more
than 16 sleeping units.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A manual fire alarm system is not required in buildings less than
two stories in height where all sleeping units, attics and crawl spaces are
separated by1-hour fire resistance-rated construction and each sleeping unit
has direct access to a public way, egress court or yard.
      2.   A manual fire alarm system is not required in buildings not more
than three stories in height with not more than 20 sleeping units and equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
      3.   Manual fire alarm boxes are not required throughout the building
where the following conditions are met:
      3.1.   The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
      3.2.   The notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water
flow.
      3.3.   Not less than one manual fire alarm box is installed at an
approved location.
   (DDD)   Section 1103.7.5.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
      1103.7.5.2.1 Group R-1 and R-3 boarding and rooming house automatic smoke
detection system.  An automatic smoke detection system that activates the
occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be
installed in existing Group R-1 and R-3 boarding and rooming houses throughout
all interior corridors serving sleeping units not equipped with an approved,
supervised sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.
      Exception: Buildings equipped with single- station smoke alarms meeting
or exceeding the requirements of Section 907.2.11.1 and where the fire alarm
system includes not less than one manual fire alarm box per floor arranged to
initiate the alarm.
   (EEE)   Section 3305.5.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
      3305.5.2.1 Duties. The sole duty of fire watch personnel shall be to
perform constant patrols and watch for the occurrence of fire. The combination
of fire watch duties and site security duties is acceptable.
   (FFF)   Section 5601.2.2 is deleted and replaced to read as follows:
      5601.2.2 Sale and Retail display. Persons may construct a retail display
to offer for sale consumer fireworks (1.4G). Persons offering for sale consumer
fireworks (1.4G) must obtain proper permitting from the Office of the State
Fire Marshal and have the site inspected by Fire Code Official prior to start
of sales. Proof of documentation from the Office of the State Fire Marshal,
insurance, an inventory list of products to be sold, and the presence of needed
extinguishers will be reviewed by the Fire Code Offical.
   (GGG)   Section 5601.2.2.1 is added to read as follows:
      5601.2.2.1 Sale and Retail Display Restriction. Persons shall not
construct a retail display nor offer for sale explosives, explosive materials,
or professional display fireworks (1.3G).
   (HHH)   Section 5608.1 is amended to read as follows:
      5608.1 General. Outdoor fireworks displays, use of pyrotechnics before an
audience, and pyrotechnic special effects in motion picture, television,
theatrical, and group entertainments productions shall comply with Section
5608.2 through 5608.10, NFPA 1123 and 1126, and all governing federal, state,
and local laws and ordinances. (Ord. 2990, 2-1-2016; amd. Ord. 3343. 4-3-2023;
Ord. 3368, 8-21-2023)
8-3-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
8-3-3: MODIFICATIONS:
The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided
that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the chief of the bureau of fire prevention thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant. (Ord. 594, 7-23-1968)
8-3-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the bureau of fire prevention
appeals within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord.
594, 7-23-1968)
8-3-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The mayor and the chief of the fire department shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits
in addition to those now enumerated in said code. The chief of the bureau of
fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (Ord. 594, 7-23-1968)
8-3-5-1: BURNING:
   (A)   Open Burning Unlawful; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person
to cause, suffer, allow or permit open burning of rubbish, refuse of any kind,
garbage, metal, salvage, waste or any other material in open fire in the city
limits as provided by the rules and regulations of the Illinois pollution
control board promulgated October 15, 1971, which were adopted as the rules and
regulations for open burning for the city except, however, that it shall not be
unlawful for any owner or tenant to burn or permit to be burned such substances
as are reasonably necessary for the purpose of cooking food for consumption by
his family and guests.
   (B)   Supervision: All burning must be supervised and no fire shall be left
unattended.
   (C)   Leaf Burning Prohibited: Burning shall only be permitted on Saturday
and Sunday of each week in the year 2000. Burning shall only be permitted on
Sunday of each week during the year 2001. Thereafter, no leaf burning shall be
permitted in the city limits. (Ord. 2990, 2-1-2016)
8-3-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the chief of the bureau of fire prevention or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) (or by imprisonment for not less
than 5 days nor more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment). The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 2990, 2-1-2016)
8-3-7: FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTION FEES:
   (A)   The schedule of fees for fire prevention inspections shall be as
hereafter set forth:
      1.   Occupancies that receive a satisfactory evaluation upon initial
inspection shall not be assessed a fee.
      2.   Occupancies whose violations are corrected immediately or within the
time limits set forth in the violation notice from the Dixon Fire Department
shall not be assessed a fee.
      3.   Fees will be imposed on building owners whose occupancies, whether
owner-occupied, leased or otherwise used by a tenant or tenants, do not comply
with the City of Dixon Life Safety and/or Fire Prevention Codes, as follows:
      Occupancies that require additional inspections beyond the time limits
prescribed in the violation notice from the Dixon Fire Department will be
assessed the following fees:
         Third re-inspection         $100.00
         Fourth re-inspection         $150.00
         All additional re-inspections   $150.00
      This fee schedule shall not limit the Fire Department's ability to seek
code compliance through other legal methods.
   (B)   The City may waive any and all fees due from a person, business or
entity pursuant to this section by either an administrative regulation or on an
individual basis as the circumstances warrant.
   (C)   All revenue from the fees assessed pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the Emergency Vehicle Fund. (Ord. 3310, 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Prohibited Acts
8-4-3: Liability For Cleanup Or Abatement
8-4-4: Billing; Payment To The City
8-4-5: Inspections And Correction Of Violations
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY: All costs and expenses of the city incurred in
connection with the cleanup or abatement of the discharge of hazardous
materials and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following: actual
labor costs of city personnel involved in the cleanup or abatement of the
discharge (including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits and
administrative overhead), costs of equipment operations, damage and loss as
published and updated by the finance department of the city, costs of materials
obtained directly by the city, and cost of any contract labor and materials.
DISCHARGE: To leak, seep, spill, emit or release, or leakage, seepage,
spillage, emission or other.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity, form,
concentration, location or other characteristic, is determined by the fire
chief or his or her authorized representative to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiologic (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual, governmental body, firm, association,
partnership, copartnership, joint venture, company, corporation, joint stock
company, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, or their representative,
agent, or assigns. (Ord. 2462, 11-17-2003)
8-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the Illinois environmental protection agency or other state
or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release
is in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, property or the environment. (Ord. 2462, 11-
17-2003)
8-4-3: LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT:
   (A)   The fire department is authorized to clean up or abate the effects of
any hazardous material discharged upon or into any property or facilities
within the city where such discharge creates a hazard to any individual,
property, or the environment. The fire department may be assisted in such
cleanup or abatement by any other city department, the department of any other
governmental unit or independent contractors, as necessary to protect against
or eliminate such hazard.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally, negligently, or otherwise causes a
discharge of hazardous material and any person who owns or controls the
hazardous material's container at the time of discharge shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city and to any other entity rendering services during
the cleanup or abatement for the payment of all costs incurred by the city or
those entities as a result of such cleanup or abatement by the city.
   (C)   The authority to recover costs under this section shall not include
actual fire suppression services that are normally or customarily provided by
the fire department, unless the fire involves hazardous materials, or other
services normally or customarily provided by other city departments.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be in addition to any
other remedies provided by law or this code. (Ord. 2462, 11-17-2003)
8-4-4: BILLING; PAYMENT TO THE CITY:
   (A)   The city shall, within sixty (60) days of completion of the cleanup or
abatement of any hazardous material discharge, send an invoice for the costs
incurred by the city in connection with such discharge to the person determined
by the city to be responsible for such discharge pursuant to section
8-4-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   The person responsible for such hazardous material discharge shall
submit payment for the invoice to the city within thirty (30) days of the
receipt of the invoice. (Ord. 2462, 11-17-2003)
8-4-5: INSPECTIONS AND CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The fire chief shall inspect as often as may be necessary all
specially hazardous manufacturing processes, storage or installations of gases,
chemicals, oils, explosives and flammable materials, all interior fire alarm
and automatic sprinkler systems, and such other hazards or appliances as the
fire chief shall designate, and shall issue such orders as may be necessary for
the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and for
safeguarding of life and property from fire.
   (B)   Whenever any fire inspector shall find in any building or upon any
premises, combustible or explosive matter, or dangerous accumulations of
rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, any highly
flammable materials, or any hazardous materials and which are so situated as to
endanger life or property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes,
stairs, passageways, doors, or windows, liable to interfere with the operations
of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, he shall order
the same to be removed or remedied.
   (C)   Any person who fails to correct any violation cited by the fire chief
pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense, punishable by fines not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2462, 11-17-2003; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 5
REIMBURSEMENT FOR SPECIALIZED RESCUE SERVICES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Reimbursement For Specialized Rescue Services
8-5-3: Determining Special Rescue Fees
8-5-4: Liable Parties
8-5-5: Multiple Liable Parties
8-5-6: Appeal Of Fees
8-5-7: Penalty For Non-Payment Of Fees
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the term SPECIALIZED RESCUE SERVICE shall mean
vehicle extrication involving mechanical means, structural collapse, trench
collapse, below grade rescue, tactical rescue, high angle rescue, water rescue
or recovery, confined space rescue, rescue requiring the assistance of non-city
personnel or equipment, or other non-routine rescues which require one or more
participants to have special training, abilities or certifications. (Ord. 3312,
6-20-2022)
8-5-2: REIMBURSEMENT FOR SPECIALIZED RESCUE SERVICES:
There is hereby imposed a fee to reimburse the City for specialized rescue
services provided, managed or directed by the Dixon Fire Department in such
amount as will reimburse the City for the total reasonable cost of providing
those rescue services, which costs shall include:
   (A)   Personnel costs at the scene of the specialized rescue services,
including any call back or overtime costs, resulting from the need of having
additional City employees cover non-special rescue work while other personnel
are participating in the special rescue;
   (B)   Vehicular and equipment costs used in the specialized rescue services;
   (C)   Disposable equipment costs used in the specialized rescue services;
   (D)   The actual cost to the city of having to use any non-city owned
resources to provide the specialized rescue services; and
   (E)   The total fee shall not exceed the actual cost of providing the
specialized rescue services. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
8-5-3: DETERMINING SPECIAL RESCUE FEES:
After each occasion of providing specialized rescue services, the Fire Chief,
or his or her designee, shall compute the applicable fee for the provision of
specialized rescue services in conformance with the standards set forth in
section
8-5-2 . The invoice for the specialized rescue service fee shall be prepared by
the Dixon Fire Department and sent to the liable party. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
8-5-4: LIABLE PARTIES:
The fee may be charged to any of the following parties:
   (A)   The owner of the property on which the specialized rescue services
occurred;
   (B)   Any party involved in any act or omission that caused or contributed
to the need for the specialized rescue services;
   (C)   Any person who is rescued during specialized rescue services and his/
her employer if the person was acting in furtherance of the employer's
interests; or
   (D)   In cases involving the rescue or recovery of property, any person
having control or custody of the property at the time of the specialized rescue
services. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
8-5-5: MULTIPLE LIABLE PARTIES:
Where more than one party's act or omission is a cause of the need for
specialized rescue services, such parties shall be jointly and severally liable
for the fees. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
8-5-6: APPEAL OF FEES:
Any liable party may contest whether the amount of the fee imposed for
specialized rescue services is reasonable by filing a written notice of appeal
with the city manager not less than fourteen (14) business days after mailing
of the invoice for the specialized rescue services fees. The written appeal
shall specify why the fee is unreasonable in sufficient detail to explain the
basis of the fees alleged unreasonableness. Within fourteen (14) calendar days
of receipt of the notice of appeal, the city manager shall set an evidentiary
hearing on the appeal. It shall be the appellant's burden to establish that all
or part of the specialized rescue services fee is unreasonable. The city
manager shall reduce the specialized rescue services fee in any amount he/she
finds to be appropriate. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
8-5-7: PENALTY FOR NON-PAYMENT OF FEES:
Invoices for fees for specialized rescue services shall be paid within sixty
(60) days. If the invoiced party fails or refuses to pay such invoice within
said sixty (60), such party shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 3312, 6-20-2022)
TITLE 9
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Department Established
9-1-2: Appointments
9-1-3: Qualifications
9-1-4: Period Of Instruction
9-1-5: Chief Of Police; Powers
9-1-6: Chief To Devote Entire Time To Duties
9-1-7: Duty To Abate Nuisances
9-1-8: Report Of Improper Conduct
9-1-9: Books And Records
9-1-10: Monthly Report To Council
9-1-11: Annual Report To Council
9-1-12: Custody Of Police Records And Property
9-1-13: Police Officers To Devote Entire Time To Duty
9-1-14: Power To Arrest
9-1-15: Power To Serve Process
9-1-16: Territorial Jurisdiction
9-1-17: May Call Posse Comitatus
9-1-18: Police To Aid Fire Department
9-1-19: Assignment Of Hours Of Duty
9-1-20: Uniform
9-1-21: Service Insignia
9-1-22: Breaches Of Duty (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-23: Removal From Office
9-1-24: Falsely Representing Police Officer (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-25: Traffic Offenses; Duty Of Police (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-26: Part Time Police Officers
9-1-27: Conformance Of Union Contracts; Police Personnel (Rep. by Ord. 2866, 3-
19-2012)
9-1-28: Auxiliary Police
9-1-29: Community Service Officer
9-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is established a department of the Municipal government of the City,
which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department shall
consist of the Chief of Police, up to two (2) Deputy Chiefs (which position
shall be equal in rank to the position of lieutenant as the same existed in the
Police Department chain of command as of July 20, 2020), six (6) sergeants,
such number of police officers as the Council may determine to be necessary,
and a public service officer. (Ord. 2937, 4-21-2014; amd. Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015,
eff. 5-4-2015; 2020 Code; Ord. 3263, 2-7-2022)
9-1-2: APPOINTMENTS:
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the City Manager for an
indefinite period of time. He or she shall, before he or she enters upon the
duties of his or her office, take and sign the oath prescribed by law for City
officials.
   (B)    At any time there are less than twenty-five (25) full-time police
officers within the Police Department, there may be one (1) Deputy Chief. At
any time there are twenty-five (25) or more full-time police officers within
the Police Department, there may be no more than two (2) Deputy Chiefs. A
Deputy Chief may be appointed by the Chief of Police from any rank of sworn
full-time police officers within the Police Department, must have at least five
(5) years of full-time service as a full-time police officer in the Police
Department, and shall serve as Deputy Chief at the Police Chief's discretion. A
Deputy Chief shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to take promotional exams
and be promoted to a higher classified rank than he or she currently holds
without having to resign as Deputy Chief. A Deputy Chief, if removed from such
position, shall revert to the rank held immediately prior to his or her
appointment as Deputy Chief with pay associated with such rank as of the date
of removal.
   (C)   All other police officers shall be appointed in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-1.
   (D)   Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, all members of the
Police Department, excepting the Chief of Police, are hereby designated as
employees of the City and not as officials thereof. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015; Ord. 3263, 2-7-2022)
9-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   (A)   (Rep. by Ord. 2866, 3-19-2012)
   (B)   No person shall be appointed or employed as Chief of Police,
Lieutenant, Sergeant or in any other capacity as a police officer who does not
comply with the requirements stated in article II of the Rules and Regulations
of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the City. Any person receiving
an appointment or being employed as Chief of Police shall, within six (6)
months after such appointment or employment, establish and continually maintain
his or her domicile within the geographic boundaries of Community Unit School
District #170 (also known as the Dixon Public School District). All other
persons appointed or employed as a police officer shall, within six (6) months
after such appointment or employment, establish his or her domicile within
twelve and a half (12.5) miles of the City limits of Dixon, Illinois. Any
person failing to adhere to this subsection shall be discharged. (Ord. 3067,
11-6-2017)
   (C)   All persons employed as a police officer shall, prior to commencement
of employment, be required to execute a police officer training reimbursement
agreement whereby the newly employed officer agrees to reimburse the City for
certain costs and expenses as set forth in said reimbursement agreement, a copy
of which is on file with the City Clerk. No person shall commence employment
without first executing said reimbursement agreement. (Ord. 1736, 6-7-1993;
amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-4: PERIOD OF INSTRUCTION:
Each person employed as a member of the police department shall, during the
first six (6) months of his employment, take a course of instruction to qualify
him to perform his duties, said course of instruction to be prescribed by the
commissioner of public health and safety with the approval of the council. If
the person does not satisfactorily complete such course within the period of
six (6) months, he shall be discharged immediately and shall not be reappointed
as a member of the police department during the period of one year next
following such discharge. (1950 Code)
9-1-5: POWERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE; DEPUTY CHIEF
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the jurisdiction and control of
the City Manager, have the management and control of the Police Department. All
regulations and orders thereof shall be promulgated through the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   A Deputy Chief shall have and perform the following powers and duties:
active direction and supervision over all sergeants and patrol officers subject
to the supervision of the Chief of Police; professional development of the
Police Department through training, policy and procedure development; expansion
of capacity through programs such as administrative adjudication, technological
opportunities and recruiting programs; make recommendations for police-related
ordinances and revisions thereof, public relations and public education; and
promoting skill in sergeants and patrol officers. (Ord. 2964, 4-20-2015, eff.
5-4-2015; amd. Ord. 3263, 2-7-2022)
9-1-6: CHIEF TO DEVOTE ENTIRE TIME TO DUTIES:
The chief of police shall devote his entire time to the discharge of the duties
of his office, shall engage in no other duties of employment except those
designated and approved by the council, and particularly in relation to the
duties of civil defense with the county of Lee, Illinois, which said chief of
police may, at the discretion of the council, assume and discharge; and shall
be charged with the preservation of the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of
the city and with the duty of protecting the rights of persons and property and
enforcing all provisions of this code. (Ord. 520, 7-19-1966)
9-1-7: DUTY TO ABATE NUISANCES:
The chief of police shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions and
defects in streets and alleys or other public places of the city and shall
cause the same to be abated or removed or immediate notice thereof given to the
proper officer whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto. (1950
Code)
9-1-8: REPORT OF IMPROPER CONDUCT:
The chief of police shall promptly report to the city manager any member of the
police force who is guilty of drunkenness, neglect of duty, disobedience of
orders or violation of the rules and regulations of the police department.
(1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-9: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The chief of police shall keep, or cause to be kept, books of record of the
police department and of all persons arrested by the police, showing the time
and place of each arrest, the offense for which same was made, the magistrate,
justice or court before whom such person was taken and the disposition of the
case. (1950 Code)
9-1-10: MONTHLY REPORT TO COUNCIL:
The chief of police shall, on the first Tuesday of each month, make a written
report to the council showing the number of arrests made by the police during
the preceding month, the name of each person arrested, the officer making the
arrest, the offense charged, the magistrate, justice or court before whom
tried, the disposition of the case, the amount of fine imposed, if any, and the
amount of such fine collected. (1950 Code)
9-1-11: ANNUAL REPORT TO COUNCIL:
The chief of police shall, on or before April 21 of each year, make a report to
the council, in writing, showing the number of arrests made during the year,
the causes of such arrests, disposition of the cases, amount of fines imposed
and amount of fines collected together with such other details and
recommendations as may seem to him proper. (1950 Code)
9-1-12: CUSTODY OF POLICE RECORDS AND PROPERTY:
The chief of police shall have the care, custody and control of all books,
records, equipment and other property belonging to the police department and of
all stolen goods seized and retained by police authority. Upon the expiration
of his term of office or his resignation or removal therefrom he shall
surrender to his successor in office all books, records, equipment and property
of every description in his possession belonging to the city or appertaining to
his office. (1950 Code)
9-1-13: POLICE OFFICERS TO DEVOTE ENTIRE TIME TO DUTY:
Each police officer shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office
and shall engage in no other duties or employment, and to the best of his
ability, shall see that the laws of the city are enforced. (1950 Code)
9-1-14: POWER TO ARREST:
Each member of the police department shall have the power to arrest, with or
without process, all persons within the city who shall break the peace or
violate any provisions of this code or any law of this state or the United
States. (1950 Code)
9-1-15: POWER TO SERVE PROCESS:
Each member of the police department shall have the power and authority within
the limits of the city, to serve and execute warrants or other legal process
for the apprehension and commitment of persons charged with or held for the
commission of any crime or misdemeanor or the violation of any provisions of
this code and while serving or executing or assisting in the serving or
executing of any such warrant or legal process shall be vested with all the
common law and statutory powers of constables for such purposes. (1950 Code)
9-1-16: TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
Each member of the police department shall also have the power and authority to
execute city warrants or other legal process without the limits of the city and
within such distance therefrom as is authorized by law in all cases where any
provision of this code shall prescribe a penalty for the violation of any of
its provisions for persons residing, acting or doing business without the
limits of the city. (1950 Code)
9-1-17: MAY CALL POSSE COMITATUS:
A police officer may, at any time, call upon any able bodied person eighteen
(18) years or older to aid him or her in apprehending a person whom the officer
is authorized to apprehend or in preventing the commission by another of any
offense. Whoever upon command refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to provide
such aid commits a petty offense. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-18: POLICE TO AID FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Any member of the police department shall aid the fire department in
extinguishing fires and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate
vicinity of fires so that the firemen shall not be hindered or obstructed in
the performance of their duties. (1950 Code)
9-1-19: ASSIGNMENT OF HOURS OF DUTY:
The chief of police, under the direction of the city manager, shall arrange and
assign the hours of duty of the police officers. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-20: UNIFORM:
Police officers shall wear a uniform and a badge at all times when on duty. The
uniform shall be furnished by the police department. The badge shall be
furnished by the city.
In addition to the compensation established by the city, each member of the
police department shall be paid the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
annually as an allowance toward the purchase of necessary uniforms. Such
allowance shall be paid to him in semiannual installments of fifty dollars
($50.00) each, the first of which payments shall be made at the beginning of
the city's fiscal year and the second at the beginning of the second one-half
(1/2) of the fiscal year. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-21: SERVICE INSIGNIA:
   (A)   The years of service of a police officer with the department may be
designated upon the left sleeve of each officer's coat as follows:
      1.   For all sergeants, lieutenants and the chief of police: For each
five (5) years of service, a one inch (1") wide gold bar.
      2.   For all patrolmen: For each five (5) years of service a one inch
(1") wide silver bar.
   (B)   Years of service of a police officer with the department may also be
designated upon the front of the officer's uniform as follows:
      1.   For all sergeants, lieutenants and the chief of police: A blue
ribbon with one gold star for each five (5) years of service.
      2.   For all patrolmen: A blue ribbon with one silver star for each five
(5) years of service. (Ord. 1466, 1-3-1989)
9-1-22: BREACHES OF DUTY:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-23: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The chief of police may be removed or discharged by the city manager; provided,
that removal or discharge shall not become effective unless confirmed by a
majority of the city council. All other police officers may be discharged in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq. and the collective bargaining agreement,
as applicable. (1950 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-24: FALSELY REPRESENTING POLICE OFFICER:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-25: TRAFFIC OFFENSES; DUTY OF POLICE:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-1-26: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   (A)   Upon the recommendation of the city manager, the city council may,
when, in its judgment, the public welfare of the city shall so require, appoint
part time police officers as may be necessary and in the best interests of the
city. Said appointed part time police officers must successfully complete any
training mandated by the Illinois law enforcement training standards board, the
city of Dixon or the chief of police.
   (B)   Said part time officers shall be members of the Dixon police
department, except for pension purposes. Said part time officers shall not be
assigned under any circumstances to supervise or direct full time police
officers of the Dixon police department and shall not be used as permanent
replacements for permanent full time police officers.
   (C)   Said part time officers shall be trained under the intergovernmental
law enforcement officers in-service training act and in accordance with the
procedures for part time police officers established by the Illinois law
enforcement training and standards board. Prior to the hiring of a part time
officer, the applicant shall complete an application, an oral interview, and a
background investigation, as determined by the chief of police, and such other
requirements and tests as may be established from time to time by the city
council. Said hiring standards shall be submitted to the Illinois law
enforcement training and standards board for its review.
   (D)   The maximum number of hours a part time police officer may work in a
calendar year is restricted to one thousand five hundred sixty (1,560) hours.
(Ord. 2885, 8-6-2012; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-27: CONFORMANCE OF UNION CONTRACTS; POLICE PERSONNEL:
(Rep. by Ord. 2866, 3-19-2012)
9-1-28: AUXILIARY POLICE:
   (A)   There is hereby established the Dixon auxiliary police force. The
number of such force shall be established from time to time as provided herein.
Auxiliary policemen shall not be members of the Dixon police department and
shall not supplement members of the police department in the performance of
their assigned and normal duties except as provided herein.
   (B)   Auxiliary policemen shall have the duty of aiding and directing
traffic within the city. Auxiliary policemen shall be authorized to issue
traffic citations for the violation of any of the provisions of this code
prohibiting or restricting parking. (Ord. 2114, 9-8-1998)
   (C)   Auxiliary policemen are authorized to wear uniforms and identification
symbols designating them as city auxiliary policemen. Said uniforms and symbols
shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular members of the
Dixon police department.
   (D)   Auxiliary policemen shall at all times during the performance of their
duties be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police, the
mayor and city council.
   (E)   Auxiliary policemen shall not be permitted or allowed to carry
firearms. (Ord. 1305, 10-21-1985; amd. 2020 Code)
9-1-29: COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER:
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of community service officer who
shall perform the duties of office under the supervision of the chief of
police. The community service officer shall be appointed by the chief of police
by and with the advice and consent of the city manager.
   (B)   The community service officer shall perform such duties as are
assigned by the chief of police and such duties shall include: 1) enforcement
of all parking regulations and other city ordinances which do not create an
immediate hazard, and reporting to the shift supervisor; 2) patrolling downtown
parking areas and other areas as necessary to control and regulate the parking
laws and regulations of the city and state; 3) performing dispatch and clerical
duties; 4) assisting in maintaining an effective relationship between the
police service and the community; 5) creating and filing records as may from
time to time be required by the chief of police; 6) executing complaints and
testifying in court as needed; and 7) performing such other related duties as
may be prescribed from time to time by the city council or the chief of police.
(Ord. 2721, 2-2-2009; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Aid In Escape (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-2: Aid To An Offense (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-3: Animals And Birds; Shooting (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-4: Animals; Cruelty To
9-2-5: Assault
9-2-6: Assembly; Unlawful
9-2-7: Barbed Wire Fences
9-2-8: Bookmaking And Pool Selling (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-9: Concealed Weapons
9-2-10: Disturbing Assemblies; Processions
9-2-11: Disturbing The Peace (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-11-1: Life Preservers Protected; Penalty (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-12: Drunkenness
9-2-13: Excavations; Leaving Unguarded
9-2-14: False Fire Alarms
9-2-15: Firearms
9-2-16: Fortune Telling (Rep. by Ord. 2922, 8-5-2013)
9-2-17: Gambling
9-2-18: Indecent Exposure (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-19: Landmarks; Removal Of
9-2-20: Lotteries
9-2-21: Noises; Unnecessary 1  (Rep. by Ord. 3011, 5-16-2016)
9-2-22: Obscene Literature (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-23: Pinball Machines (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-24: Police Officers; Obedience To
9-2-25: Profane Language
9-2-26: Prostitution (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-27: Prostitution; House Of (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-28: Railroad Cars; Obstructing Vision (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-29: Resisting An Officer (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-30: Swindling (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-31: Vagrancy (Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-32: False Alarms
9-2-33: Distribution Of Written Materials
9-2-34: Certain Enumerated Criminal Provisions Adopted By Reference
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-7-7 of this code.
9-2-1: AID IN ESCAPE 1 :
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/31-7.
9-2-2: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-3: ANIMALS AND BIRDS; SHOOTING:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-4: ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO 1 :
No person shall be cruel to an animal by overloading, overdriving, overworking,
cruelly beating, torturing, tormenting, mutilating or cruelly killing any
animal, or causing or allowing the same to be done knowingly, or by cruelly
working any animal which is maimed, infirm, sick or disabled or causing the
same to be done, or unnecessarily failing to provide an animal in his charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink and shelter, or
abandoning an old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or by keeping or
driving or causing to be driven or kept an animal in an unnecessarily cruel
manner. (Ord., 12-17-1963)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6.
9-2-5: ASSAULT 1 :
No person shall commit an assault or an assault and battery upon the person of
another or be guilty of an affray or challenge or offer to fight another.
(Ord., 12-17-1963)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/12-1.
9-2-6: ASSEMBLY; UNLAWFUL 1 :
No two (2) or more persons shall assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or
being assembled, act in concert to do an unlawful act with force and violence
against the property of the City or the person or property of another against
the peace or to the terror of citizens or other persons or make any movement or
preparation therefor. (Ord., 12-17-1963)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.
9-2-7: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
No person as the owner, lessee, or agent of any building or grounds shall erect
or maintain or permit to be erected or maintained in or about the entrance of
such building, or along any street, within two feet (2') of the sidewalk
thereon, any railing, fence, guard or other protection there shall be affixed
or placed, or in any manner attached, any spike, nail, barb or other pointed
instrument or thing of any kind or description which shall be dangerous or
likely to cause injury to the person or wearing apparel of any person
frequenting the building or traveling upon the sidewalk. (Ord., 12-17-1963)
9-2-8: BOOKMAKING AND POOL SELLING 1 :
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
9-2-9: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
No person shall wear or carry concealed about his person any pistol, revolver,
slingshot, metallic knuckles, bowie knife, dirk, razor, stun gun, taser or
other dangerous or deadly weapon or display or flourish any such weapon in a
boisterous or threatening manner; provided, that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to any member of the Police Force, Constable or other Peace
Officer while in the discharge of his duty nor to any person summoned by any
such officer to aid him in making an arrest or preserving the peace. Further,
this section shall not apply to any person carrying or possessing said weapons
in accordance with the Firearm Concealed Carry Act who has been issued a
currently valid license under said Act. (Ord. 3030, 3-20-2017)
9-2-10: DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES; PROCESSIONS 1 :
No person shall interrupt or disturb any congregation or assembly meeting for
the purpose of religious worship, or for any lawful purpose by making any loud
or unusual noise or by rude or indecent behavior or by profane, obscene or
improper discourse or conduct.
No person shall wilfully interrupt or disturb any funeral procession or
assembly.
No person shall conduct himself in a riotous or disorderly manner or disturb
the peace at any show, exhibition, theater or other place of amusement or at
any polling place. (Ord., 12-17-1963)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.
9-2-11: DISTURBING THE PEACE 1 :
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2; 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
9-2-11-1: LIFE PRESERVERS PROTECTED; PENALTY:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-12: DRUNKENNESS 1 :
No person shall be in a state of intoxication or drunkenness at any public
place or place open to public view, or in any private house or place to the
annoyance of any person, when the person could pose a danger to himself or
others. (1950 Code)
No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic beverage on any public street or
alley or in any public place open to public view in the city. (Ord. 123, 9-6-
1955; amd. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3.
9-2-13: EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNGUARDED:
No person making an excavation upon or adjoining any street or alley or
sidewalk or having the same in charge shall leave it open and unprotected so as
to endanger persons or animals. (Ord. 297, 12-8-1959)
9-2-14: FALSE FIRE ALARMS 1 :
No person shall report or turn in any alarm of fire or cause such alarm to be
given when no fire exists. (Ord. 297, 12-8-1959)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/26-1(2).
9-2-15: FIREARMS 1 :
(Rep. 2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5.
9-2-16: FORTUNE TELLING:
(Rep. by Ord. 2922, 8-5-2013)
9-2-17: GAMBLING 1 :
Except for the provisions in section
5-13-14 of this code:
   (A)   No person shall play for money, or other valuable thing, at any game
with cards, dice, checks, or at billiards, or with any other article,
instrument or thing whatsoever, which may be used for the purpose of playing or
betting upon or winning or losing money, or any other thing or article of
value, or shall bet on any game others may be playing.
   (B)   Every clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or device for
the reception of money on chance or upon the action of which money is staked,
hazarded, bet, won or lost is hereby declared a gambling device and shall be
subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by any member of the police
department.
   (C)   No person shall keep a common gaming house, or in any building, booth,
yard, garden, boat or float, by him or his agent used and occupied, procure or
permit any persons to frequent or to come together to play for money or other
valuable thing, at any game, or keep any tables or other apparatus, for the
purpose of playing at any game or sport, for money or any other valuable thing,
or knowingly rent any such place for such purposes. (Ord. 2879, 6-18-2012)
 
Notes
1 4. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1; 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
9-2-18: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-19: LANDMARKS; REMOVAL OF:
No person shall change the location of or remove any stake, post or stone
placed or set to designate the corner or line of any lot or tract of land,
street, alley or sidewalk or to show the grade of any street, alley or
sidewalk. (Ord. 297, 12-8-1959)
9-2-20: LOTTERIES 1 :
No person shall set up or promote any lotteries for money, or by way of lottery
dispose of any property of value, real or personal, or under pretense of a
sale, gift or delivery of any other property, or any right, privilege or thing
whatsoever, dispose of, or offer of attempt to dispose of any real or personal
property with intent to make the disposal of such real or personal property
dependent upon or connected with any chance by dice, lot numbers, game, hazard
or other gambling device, whereby such change or device is made an additional
inducement to the disposal or sale of the property, or shall aid, either by
printing or writing, or shall be in any way concerned in the setting up,
managing or drawing any such lottery, or in such disposal, or offer or attempt
to dispose of property by any such chance or device. (Ord. 297, 12-8-1959)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1; 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
9-2-21: NOISES; UNNECESSARY 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 3011, 5-16-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-7-7 of this code.
9-2-22: OBSCENE LITERATURE:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-23: PINBALL MACHINES:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-24: POLICE OFFICERS; OBEDIENCE TO:
All persons shall obey the commands and directions of any police officer in the
line of duty. (Ord. 1100, 7-20-1981)
9-2-25: PROFANE LANGUAGE 1 :
No person shall use profane or obscene language in any public place loud enough
to be heard. (Ord. 1100, 7-20-1981)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3.
9-2-26: PROSTITUTION:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-27: PROSTITUTION; HOUSE OF:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-28: RAILROAD CARS; OBSTRUCTING VISION:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-29: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-30: SWINDLING:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-31: VAGRANCY:
(Rep. 2020 Code)
9-2-32: FALSE ALARMS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transmit a false alarm to the
city. Any person having an alarm system or device on his premises on the
effective date of this section shall be subject to the following charges for
each and every false fire alarm per premises per quarter calendar year, as
follows:
 
First false alarm           No charge
Second false alarm          No charge
All subsequent false alarms $150.00
 
(Ord. 1100, 7-20-1981)
The office of the finance director is hereby authorized to bill these charges.
If payment is not received by the finance director's office within thirty (30)
days, the finance director may refer the matter to the city attorney for
prosecution. The penalty for violation of this section unless otherwise
prescribed, shall be a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1100, 7-20-1981; amd. Ord. 2887, 8-
20-2012)
   (B)   In any prosecution for charging a violation of any law regulating
alarms, proof that a false alarm occurred at the particular building, place, or
premises described in the complaint, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint owned, operated, maintained, controlled, or leased that
building, place, or premises, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the person named in the complaint was the person who
transmitted a false alarm to the city. (Ord. 1100, 7-20-1981; amd. 2020 Code)
9-2-33: DISTRIBUTION OF WRITTEN MATERIALS:
   (A)   No persons shall throw, cast, or place in or upon any city right of
way, street, avenue, highway, sidewalk, or city owned parking lot any
unsolicited print or other written material, including, but not limited to,
newspapers, handbills, circulars, brochures, telephone books, advertising
materials, and cards.
   (B)   No persons shall deliver any unsolicited print or other written
materials, including, but not limited to, newspapers, handbills, circulars,
brochures, telephone books, advertising materials, and cards to any premises in
the city except by being handed to the recipient, placed on the porch, stoop,
entranceway or front steps of the building or residence, in a manner so as to
prevent, to the extent practicable, any such articles from being blown about in
any way causing litter. No such materials may be distributed within the city by
means of tossing or otherwise propelling such materials from a motor vehicle,
whether moving or stopped. (Ord. 2624, 2-5-2007)
9-2-34: CERTAIN ENUMERATED CRIMINAL PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   (A)   The following Illinois statutes are adopted by reference as if fully
set forth in this section: (Ord. 2861, 1-17-2012)
Battery                                               720 ILCS 5/12-3
Consumption of alcohol                                235 ILCS 5/6-20
Criminal trespass to property                         720 ILCS 5/21-3
Criminal trespass to vehicles                         720 ILCS 5/21-2
Disorderly conduct                                    720 ILCS 5/26-1
Possession of cannabis                                720 ILCS 550/4
Possession of drug paraphernalia                      720 ILCS 600/3.5
Resisting/obstructing a peace officer, firefighter or 720 ILCS 5/31-1
correctional institution employee
 
(Ord. 2861, 1-17-2012; amd. Ord. 2928, 10-21-2013)
   (B)   The penalty for violation of any of the above described provisions
adopted by reference in subsection (A) of this section shall be a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Such penalty may also include, or consist
of, a requirement that the defendant perform some reasonable public service
work, such as, but not limited to, the picking up of litter in public parks, or
along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities. (Ord. 2861, 1-
17-2012)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Running At Large Prohibited
9-3-3: Dangerous Animals
9-3-4: Diseased Animals
9-3-5: Noisy Animals
9-3-6: Farm Animals Prohibited
9-3-7: Farm Animals; Exceptions
9-3-8: Nondomesticated Animals Prohibited
9-3-9: Limitations On Certain Animals
9-3-10: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words as used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them herein unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
FARM ANIMALS:             One or more fowl, rabbits, rodents, bees or
                          livestock, other than a household pet.
                          One or more domesticated roosters, ducks, geese,
                          turkeys, peacocks, guinea, or similar birds kept for
FOWL:                     eggs or meat, excluding chickens owned, kept and
                          raised in accordance with the provisions of this
                          chapter.
HOUSEHOLD PET:            A dog, cat or any animal of a type customarily used
                          for a pet of an individual or a family.
                          Cattle, horses, swine, sheep, mules, goats, donkey
LIVESTOCK:                and other similar animals, excluding miniature
                          potbellied pigs owned, kept and raised in accordance
                          with the provisions of this chapter.
                          Any purebred potbellied pig weighing not more than
                          one hundred fifty (150) pounds, with a maximum height
                          no greater than eighteen inches (18") at the
MINIATURE POTBELLIED PIG: shoulder, which is continuously registered with a
                          nationally recognized purebred miniature pig
                          association and is meant to be kept as a household
                          pet. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
 
9-3-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to permit horses, asses, mules, cattle, swine, sheep,
goats, geese or dogs to run at large within the limits of the city. It shall
further be unlawful to picket, tie or tether any such animal in any of the
streets of the city for the purpose of grazing or feeding. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-
2020)
9-3-3: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to
run at large within the limits of the city. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-4: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to
run at large, or be exposed in any public place or street, whereby the health
of persons or animals may be affected. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-5: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace by
loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-6: FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the limits of the city any
farm animals, except as otherwise set forth in section
9-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-7: FARM ANIMALS; EXCEPTIONS:
Farm animals, excluding swine and bees, may be kept on any property located
within the limits of the city if such property consists of not less than 1.4
acres of land. The property shall not be maintained in any manner so as to
become a nuisance. The owner or occupant of any such property shall provide and
maintain adequate fencing and/or enclosures sufficient in size and strength to
confine the farm animals to the property at all times. All enclosures shall be
located at least fifty feet (50') from any property line and must be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Manure, excrement and waste
shall not be allowed to accumulate on the property and must be cleaned up on a
regular basis. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-8: NONDOMESTICATED ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, harbor, sell or in
any manner to traffic in the following species of animals:
   1.   All poisonous snakes and poisonous reptiles, gila monsters, alligators,
crocodiles and caimans;
   2.   Gorillas, chimpanzees, orangutans, baboons, and any other primates;
   3.   Any species of feline not falling within the categories of ordinary
domesticated house cats (felis catus) as established by the American Cat
Association and/or the American Cat Fancier Association;
   4.   Bear of any species;
   5.   Raccoons, porcupines, skunks, badgers and other furbearing animals,
except ferrets (mustels furo); and
   6.   Foxes, wolves, coyotes or other species of canines other than canis
familiaris.
(B)   This section shall not apply to any bona fide zoological garden, bona
fide educational or medical institution, museum, veterinary hospital, wildlife
rescue entity or wildlife rehabilitation entity with an appropriate permit from
the state, a circus or carnival licensed by the city, nor shall it apply to a
bona fide research institute or facility using wild, exotic or dangerous
animals for scientific research. In addition, this section shall not apply to
any primate trained and used to assist a handicapped person.
(C)   In the event that a wild, exotic or dangerous animal is found at large,
thereby creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, at the
discretion of the police department, be destroyed if it cannot be captured or
confined. The city shall be under no duty to attempt to confine or capture a
wild, exotic or dangerous animal found at large, nor shall the city have a duty
to notify the owner of such an animal prior to its destruction.
(D)   If a person is found to be keeping, sheltering, or harboring a wild,
exotic or dangerous animal within the city, such animal may be seized
immediately. An animal so seized shall be held for seven (7) days. If the
person keeping, sheltering or harboring the animal has not petitioned the court
to seek the return of the animal by the end of the seven-day impoundment,
reasonable efforts will be made to permanently place the animal with an
organization exempt from the provisions of this section. If such reasonable
efforts do not result in the placement of the animal with an organization
exempt from the provisions of this section, the animal may be euthanized. (Ord.
3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-9: LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN ANIMALS:
(A)   Chickens:
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, house, raise or keep
chickens within the limits of the city unless it is done in compliance with the
provisions of this subsection (A).
   2.   The keeping, housing or raising of chickens shall be limited to single-
family residences.
   3.   No property shall have more than six (6) chickens present at the
property at any time. Roosters are not permitted.
   4.   The owner or occupant of any property keeping, housing or raising
chickens in accordance with this subsection (A) shall provide and maintain
adequate fencing and/or an enclosure sufficient in size and strength to confine
the chickens to the property at all times. All enclosures shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
   5.   It shall be unlawful to place or locate any enclosure for chickens,
including, but not limited to, chicken coops, houses, cages and kennels, within
twelve (12) feet of any property line. Fencing shall comply with the city's
existing set-back requirements and all other regulations pertaining to the
same.
   6.   Slaughtering of chickens on the property is prohibited.
   7.   Manure, excrement and waste shall not be allowed to accumulate on the
property and must be cleaned up on a regular basis.
(B)   Miniature potbellied pigs:
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, house, raise or keep any
miniature potbellied pig within the limits of the city unless it is done in
compliance with the provisions of this subsection (B).
   2.   No more than three (3) miniature potbellied pigs shall be kept at any
one location within the city limits for any period of time.
   3.   All miniature potbellied pigs shall be surgically rendered incapable of
reproduction by spaying or neutering.
   4.   Miniature potbellied pigs are required to display collar tags bearing
the name and address of the animal's owner at all times.
   5.   The owner or keeper of any miniature potbellied pig shall not permit
such animal to go beyond the premises of the owner or keeper unless the animal
is securely leashed or otherwise securely restrained and at all times under the
control of its owner or keeper.
   6.   Manure, excrement and waste shall not be allowed to accumulate on the
property and must be cleaned up on a regular basis. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
9-3-10: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each occurrence. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate punishable offense. (Ord. 3189, 3-2-2020)
CHAPTER 4
DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
9-4-2-1: Guard Dog Or Attack Dog
9-4-3: Barking Dogs
9-4-4: Rabies
9-4-5: Running At Large Prohibited
9-4-6: Number Of Dogs And Cats
9-4-7: Penalty
9-4-8: Dog Excrement
9-4-9: Compliance
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner
or member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
BITING: Having been seized with the teeth or jaws, so that the person or thing
seized has been nipped or gripped or has been wounded or pierced and includes
contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of skin.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog which, when unmuzzled, unleashed, or
unattended by its owner or a member of its owner's family, approaches any
person upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places in the city in a
vicious or terrorizing manner. The determination that a dog is a "dangerous
dog", as defined in this section, shall be made by the county animal control
administrator, the administrator's duly authorized representative, or a law
enforcement officer after an investigation has been conducted. The finding that
a dog is a dangerous dog shall be made in writing, and a copy thereof shall be
delivered personally to the owner or person keeping the dog or delivered by
first class mail through the U.S. postal service.
DOG: All animals of the canine species, both male and female.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
enclosure. Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
FOUND TO BE A VICIOUS DOG: (A) The county animal control administrator, the
administrator's duly authorized representative, or a law enforcement officer
has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the dog is a
"vicious dog" as defined in this section and, based on that finding, the county
animal control administrator or duly authorized representative has declared in
writing that the dog is a vicious dog; or
   (B)   The circuit court has found the dog to be a "vicious dog" as defined
in this section and has entered an order based on that finding. A copy of the
finding that a dog is a vicious dog shall be delivered to the owner or keeper
of the dog at the same time that the impoundment order is delivered to the
owner or keeper of the dog.
GUARD DOG OR ATTACK DOG: A dog not owned by a governmental agency which has
been trained and is used for the purpose of protection of persons or property
by exhibiting hostile and aggressive propensities, or which will attack on
signal or command; or a dog which engages in or is found to have been trained
to engage in exhibitions of dog fighting; or has been trained to fight, attack,
or kill. Any dog which is outfitted with a training device for fighting or
attack, such as a weighted collar around the neck of the dog, shall be presumed
to be a dog trained as an attack dog.
HARBOR: To allow any animal to remain, be lodged, fed, or sheltered on the
property one owns, occupies or controls, for more than twenty four (24) hours.
IMPOUNDED: Taken into custody of the pound operated by or under contract for
the city when the dog is found in the city.
OWNER: Any person, or persons, firm, association or corporation having any
right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors a dog or who has a dog in
his care, or acts as its custodian or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on
or about any premises occupied by him.
UNCONFINED: If a vicious dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner of
the dog. The pen or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached
to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot (1'). All such
pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
VICIOUS DOG: (A) Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or another animal on either public or private property.
   (B)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or domestic animals.
   (C)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a generally
known reputation of viciousness, dangerousness, or unprovoked attacks upon
human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with
special equipment.
   (D)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation.
   (E)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a "dangerous dog" upon
three (3) separate occasions.
No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks, or menaces a trespasser
on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or
abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard
duties. If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure. (Ord. 1559, 9-17-1990; amd. Ord. 2051, 12-15-1997; Ord. 2541, 7-5-
2005)
9-4-2: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   1. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog
which has been found to be a vicious dog at any location within the corporate
limits of the city.
      2.   Any dog in the city which has been found to be a vicious dog shall
be impounded by order of the county animal control administrator, the
administrator's duly authorized representative, or a law enforcement officer
and shall be delivered over to a licensed veterinarian for humane destruction.
      3.   If the owner of a vicious dog has not appealed the impoundment order
to the circuit court of the county in which the animal was impounded within
seven (7) working days, the dog shall be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be
a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner except upon final order of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by a leash or other control method.
   (B)   Each day a person fails to comply with the provisions of this section
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2305, 3-5-2001)
9-4-2-1: GUARD DOG OR ATTACK DOG:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or harbor any
guard or attack dog at any location within the corporate limits of the city
absent compliance with all of the following requirements:
      1.   The owner of the guard or attack dog shall provide the following to
the city clerk:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner of the guard or attack dog, a
description of the dog, including licensure, and the address and business name
(if any) of the premises the dog will guard or will otherwise be located;
         (b)   The name, address, and telephone number of the trainer of the
guard or attack dog, and the name, address, and telephone number of all persons
from whom the guard or attack dog will respond to command;
         (c)   A certificate of insurance with a policy limit of not less than
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) issued by a company authorized to
do business in Illinois, to cover claims brought by third parties in connection
with physical injury or property damage caused by the guard or attack dog. The
owner shall file updated certificates of insurance with the city clerk at the
time the required insurance policies are renewed.
      2.   Signs shall be displayed on the premises where a guard or attack dog
is present at all entrances clearly warning that a guard or attack dog is
present.
      3.   The owner is required to advise the city of Dixon police and fire
departments of the location where any such guard or attack dog will be present,
and shall promptly notify the departments of any address changes.
      4.   The premises where the guard or attack dog will be located shall be
adequately secured for the safety of the public, and the premises where a guard
or attack dog is or is to be located shall be subject to inspection by the
building official of the city of Dixon to determine if the premises are
adequately secured.
      5.   No guard or attack dog shall be permitted in any public place within
the city unless securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not exceeding six
feet (6') in length and under the direct control and supervision of the owner
or keeper of the dog.
      6.   No training or schooling of a guard or attack dog may take place
within the city except in areas zoned GM, as defined under section 6-11-3 of
city of Dixon zoning ordinance, as amended. (Ord. 2541, 7-5-2005)
9-4-3: BARKING DOGS:
Any owner of a dog who shall permit the dog to bark, growl, howl or whine in a
loud manner, disturbing the quiet and peace and the peaceful enjoyment of
others of the same, adjoining or nearby, property or vicinity shall be deemed
to be unlawfully creating, maintaining and suffering to exist a public
nuisance. (Ord. 1559, 9-17-1990)
9-4-4: RABIES:
Wherever the mayor shall deem it advisable for the prevention of rabies, or
when ordered by the Illinois department of agriculture, he may issue his
proclamation requiring all dogs within the city to be confined, or to be
muzzled, for such time as he may in his proclamation designate; and whoever
permits any dog to run at large, or remain at large unmuzzled, contrary to the
terms of the proclamation, whether the dog is licensed or not, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and such dog so running at large may be destroyed by
or under the direction of the chief of police. (Ord. 1559, 9-17-1990)
9-4-5: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any dog to run at large within the limits of the city. If a
dog does so run at large within the limits of the city, any person who owns or
keeps such dog shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
9-4-7 of this chapter and any and all associated pound fees. All dogs shall be
leashed in such a manner as to prevent said dog from biting any person or from
running at large generally. It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of any
dog which escapes from the owner's premises or control to immediately notify
the police department. (Ord. 2355, 11-5-2001)
9-4-6: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
No owner shall keep more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats or any
combination thereof totaling three (3) in any single dwelling unit. Provided,
however, that the above limitation shall not apply for a period of ninety (90)
days from the date of birth of offspring of dogs or cats in a dwelling unit.
The number limitation does not apply to hospitals, clinics and other facilities
operated by a licensed veterinarian for the care and treatment of animals.
Owners keeping more than three (3) animals on the date of passage of this
chapter shall be allowed to license and keep those animals for the remainder of
their natural lives regardless of the limitation specified above. (Ord. 1559,
9-17-1990)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013)
9-4-8: DOG EXCREMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or walker of any dog to permit his
or her dog to discharge its excrement upon any public or private property
except upon the property of the owner of the animal or upon the property of one
who has assented thereto unless such owner, keeper, or walker immediately
thereafter removes such animal's excrement from the public or private property
in question. If the excrement is not immediately removed, the owner, keeper or
walker shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1643,
12-16-1991)
9-4-9: COMPLIANCE:
The Lee County animal control officer or any officer of the city of Dixon
police department is authorized to sign a complaint for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter and to issue a citation notifying the offender to
appear in court at the time designated for hearing such case(s). (Ord. 2323, 6-
4-2001)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Unlawful To Abandon Vehicles
9-5-3: Police To Be Notified
9-5-4: Towing Of Abandoned Vehicles
9-5-5: Record To Be Kept
9-5-6: Ownership; Information
9-5-7: Identification Of Owner
9-5-8: Proof Of Ownership
9-5-9: Sale Of Abandoned Vehicles
9-5-10: Vehicle Determined To Be Junk; Exception
9-5-11: Report Of Transaction
9-5-12: Proceeds Of Sale
9-5-13: Police Not Liable
9-5-14: Penalty
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle that is more than twenty
five (25) years of age or a bond fide replica thereof and which is driven on
the streets only going to and returning from an antique show or an exhibition,
or for servicing or demonstration, or a fire-fighting vehicle more than twenty
(20) years old which is not used as fire-fighting equipment but is used only
for the purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
MUNICIPALITY: The city of Dixon.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained within the city of Dixon, when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, or requiring a certificate of title under
Section 3-101(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, except devices moved by human
power, devised used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles
as defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 50/1-1 et.
seq.). (2020 Code)
9-5-2: UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON VEHICLES:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part thereof on any street in this
city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth herein. The abandonment
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a street, anywhere in this city is unlawful except when
the vehicle or part thereof is kept within an enclosed building on property of
the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle
or any part thereof abandoned on private property and not confined within an
enclosed building may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
chief of police of the city after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more
has expired. (Ord. 2049, 12-15-1997)
9-5-3: POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the police
department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality.
Upon receipt of such notification, the chief of the police department shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980)
9-5-4: TOWING OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a street in this
municipality ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the chief of the police department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the street or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the street by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the chief of the police department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the chief of the police department, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980)
9-5-5: RECORD TO BE KEPT:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
police department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, license
plate or digital license plate year and number and registration sticker or
digital registration year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall
also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 1027,
1-7-1980; amd. 2020 Code)
9-5-6: OWNERSHIP; INFORMATION:
When the police department does not know the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched by the secretary of the state
for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois
state police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois state
police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. The information
determined from these record searches will be used by the police department in
sending a notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder
and other legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
Notification shall be sent no later than ten (10) business days after the date
the police department impounds or authorizes the impounding of a vehicle,
provided that if the police department is unable to determine the identity of
the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to ownership
of the impounded vehicle with a ten (10) business day period after impoundment,
then notification shall be sent no later than two (2) days after the date the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. (2020 Code)
9-5-7: IDENTIFICATION OF OWNER:
When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois state police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
state police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification of owner. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980)
9-5-8: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP:
Any time before a motor vehicle is sold at a public sale or disposed of as
provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession
may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police department proof of
ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall
be released to the owner, lienholder or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid 1 . (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980; amd.
2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-8-17  of this code.
9-5-9: SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle seven (7) years of
age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered owner, or other person
legally entitled to possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice
has been given as provided herein, the police department having possession of
the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as
an automotive parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap processor under Chapter 5 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code or the towing operator which towed the vehicle.
Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place
for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle
has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the police
department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
person. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle. (Ord. 1462, 12-19-1988)
In those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the police department, the sending of a
second certified notice will not be required. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980; amd. 2020
Code)
9-5-10: VEHICLE DETERMINED TO BE JUNK; EXCEPTION:
When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled
persons of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of age or
newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this chapter, the
vehicle may be sold as provided for herein or disposed of in the manner
authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner, lienholder
or otherlegally entitled persons.
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified in this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and, an examination of the Illinois state police stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the chief of police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk or salvage only.
A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, expanded-use antique vehicle (as
defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-118.1), custom vehicle (as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-
113.1), or street rod (as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-202.1) may, however, be sold
to a person desiring to restore it. (Ord. 1462, 12-19-1988; amd. 2020 Code)
9-5-11: REPORT OF TRANSACTION:
When a vehicle in the custody of the police department is reclaimed by the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the police
department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980; amd. 2020 Code)
9-5-12: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-1980)
9-5-13: POLICE NOT LIABLE:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, lienholder or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle
was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 1027,
1-7-1980; amd. 2020 Code)
9-5-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such. (Ord. 1027, 1-7-
1980; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 6
(Rep. by Ord. 689, 4-17-1972)
CHAPTER 7
CURFEW
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Curfew Offenses
9-7-3: Curfew Defenses
9-7-4: Enforcement
9-7-5: Penalty
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this chapter, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
                       (A) Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
CURFEW HOURS:          (B) Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday;
                       (C) Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
                       and 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
                       An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
                       resulting state that calls for immediate action. The
EMERGENCY:             term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural
                       disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
                       requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily
                       injury or loss of life.
                       Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
ESTABLISHMENT:         profit to which the public is invited, including, but
                       not limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
                       (A) A person who, under court order, is the guardian of
GUARDIAN:              the person of a minor; or
                       (B) A public or private agency with whom a minor has
                       been placed by a court.
MINOR:                 Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
                       A person who is:
                       (A) A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of
PARENT:                another person; or
                       (B) At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized
                       by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of
                       a minor.
                       Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
                       the public has access and includes, but is not limited
PUBLIC PLACE:          to, streets, highways, and the common areas of schools,
                       hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport
                       facilities, and shops.
                       (A) To linger or stay; or
REMAIN:                (B) Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a
                       police officer or the owner, operator, or other person
                       in control of the premises.
                       Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement,
                       or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
                       bodily member or organ. (2020 Code)
 
9-7-2: CURFEW OFFENSES:
   (A)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or control
of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours. (2020 Code)
9-7-3: CURFEW DEFENSES:
It is not a violation of section
9-7-2 if a minor:
   (A)   Was accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
   (B)   Was on an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   Was in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Was engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Was involved in an emergency;
   (F)   Was on the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Was attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act (750 ILCS 30/1 et. seq.). (2020 Code)
9-7-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place or on
the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.. The officer shall not
issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless the officer
reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any
response and other circumstances, no defense under section
9-7-3 is present. (2020 Code)
9-7-5: PENALTY:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (2020 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: General Requirements
9-8-3: Permit Requirements
9-8-4: Professional Fireworks Display Compliance Standards
9-8-5: Possession Of License By Lead Pyrotechnic Operator
9-8-6: Records Of Permits Issued
9-8-7: Report Of Fire, Injury, Or Property Damage
9-8-8: Report Of Theft Or Loss Of Fireworks
9-8-9: Prohibition
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
following meanings:
ACT: The pyrotechnic use act 1 .
ASSISTANT: An on site individual who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and
who, under the supervision of the lead pyrotechnic operator, assists with the
safety, setup and discharge of a pyrotechnic display.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. consumer products
safety commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and classified
as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States department of transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" does not include a substance or
article exempted under the act.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY OR CONSUMER DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or
deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: 1.3G fireworks or special effects fireworks or as further
defined in the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act.
FLAME EFFECTS: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual, or
audible effect before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic distributor
and operator licensing act.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act.
LICENSE: The license issued by the office pursuant to the pyrotechnic
distributor and operating licensing rules (41 Ill. adm. code 230).
OFFICE: The office of the state fire marshal.
1.3G FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that are used for professional outdoor displays
and classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101.
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture, commercial entity and any officer, agent, or
employee of these entities.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY OR DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of
display fireworks or flame effects to produce a visual or audible effect of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act.
PYROTECHNIC DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, company, association, group of persons, or
corporation who distributes display fireworks for sale in the state of Illinois
or provides them as part of a pyrotechnic display service in the state of
Illinois or provides only pyrotechnic display services.
SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS: Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical,
or other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
composition and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are not
labeled as such or identified as "intended for indoor use". "Special effects
fireworks" are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. (Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006; amd.
2020 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35.
9-8-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Each pyrotechnic display shall require a permit issued by the city
council in accordance with the act and this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for a pyrotechnic display permit shall be made in writing
at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the pyrotechnic display,
unless agreed to otherwise by the city council and the Dixon fire chief. After
a permit has been granted, sales, possession, use, and distribution of display
fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   (C)   Each pyrotechnic display shall require the services of a licensed
pyrotechnic distributor and a licensed lead pyrotechnic operator in accordance
with the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act, the act and this
chapter.
   (D)   A licensed lead pyrotechnic operator shall be present during any
pyrotechnic display and shall personally supervise all assistants, including
all phases of the pyrotechnic display.
   (E)   No person may act as an assistant at any pyrotechnic display that has
not reached the age of eighteen (18) and met the requirements of the act.
   (F)   The city fire chief or his designee must inspect and determine that
the display can be performed in full compliance with the rules and regulations
adopted by the Illinois state fire marshal and that the display shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons. (Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006)
9-8-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Issuance; Requirements: The city council may issue a pyrotechnic
display permit to any adult applicant that meets the following minimum
requirements:
      1.   Proof Of License: The applicant must provide proof that the
pyrotechnic display services are provided by a licensed pyrotechnic distributor
and that the individual responsible for the setup and firing of the display is
a licensed lead pyrotechnic operator.
      2.   Proof Of Insurance: The applicant must provide proof of liability
insurance in a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). Such
insurance shall be carried with an insurer authorized to do business in
Illinois and insure the applicant against liabilities, judgments, costs,
damages, and expenses that may accrue against, be charged to or be recovered
from the applicant by reason of damage to property or injury to or death of any
person arising from the pyrotechnic display or flame effect display. Such
insurance coverage shall be an occurrence based policy, and it shall cover all
periods of time when pyrotechnic materials, including flame effect materials,
are in the insured's actual or constructive possession, including those times
when the materials are being stored, transported, handled, used, discharged and
displayed.
      3.   Fire Chief Approval: The city fire chief or his designee must have
inspected the site and determined that the display can be performed in full
compliance with the act and regulations promulgated herein.
   (B)   Time Frame To Apply: The applicant must submit a written application
for a permit at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the
pyrotechnic display, unless agreed to otherwise by the city and the city fire
chief.
   (C)   No Permit Required: No permit shall be required for supervised public
displays by state or county fair associations.
   (D)   Age Of Assistants: The applicant must provide proof that all
assistants will be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   (E)   Identification And Signatures Required On The Permit: Each pyrotechnic
display permit must identify the lead pyrotechnic operator and must contain the
signature of the mayor and the city fire chief.
   (F)   Nontransferable: No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
(Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006)
9-8-4: PROFESSIONAL FIREWORKS DISPLAY COMPLIANCE STANDARDS:
All 1.3G fireworks displays and storage shall be conducted in accordance with
NFPA 1123 (2000), code for fireworks display. Storage of display fireworks
(1.3G and above) shall comply with the storage requirements set forth by the
federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives at 27 CFR 555.1 et
seq., or by the Illinois department of natural resources pursuant to article 3
of the Illinois explosives act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210. Should
there be a conflict between the requirements established by the bureau of
alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives and by the Illinois department of
natural resources, those requirements that are more specific, more stringent,
or impose requirements for which no like requirements are contained in the
other agency's requirements shall control. (Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006)
9-8-5: POSSESSION OF LICENSE BY LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR:
The lead pyrotechnic operator must be in possession and be able to produce his
license and the permit issued under this chapter upon request at all times
during the delivery, setup, and the performance of the display. (Ord. 2591, 6-
19-2006)
9-8-6: RECORDS OF PERMITS ISSUED:
The city shall maintain a copy of each display permit issued for a minimum of
four (4) years from the date of the display. Any reports of fire, injury,
property damage, theft or loss of fireworks that are submitted to the city
shall be maintained with the copy of the display permit. (Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006)
9-8-7: REPORT OF FIRE, INJURY, OR PROPERTY DAMAGE:
   (A)   Permit holders shall notify the city within twenty four (24) hours
after the following incidents:
      1.   A fire;
      2.   An injury to any person resulting from the display; or
      3.   Damage to property in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), in
the aggregate, resulting from the display.
   (B)   The city shall notify the office of any fire, injury to any person, or
damage to property in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) that resulted
from the pyrotechnic display. This notification shall be made by telephone or
in writing within three (3) days after learning of the incident. (Ord. 2591, 6-
19-2006)
9-8-8: REPORT OF THEFT OR LOSS OF FIREWORKS:
Licensed pyrotechnic distributors and licensed lead pyrotechnic operators shall
report the theft or loss of fireworks to city law enforcement in accordance
with section 230.180 of the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing
rules, Illinois department of natural resources, and bureau of alcohol,
tobacco, firearms and explosives. (Ord. 2591, 6-19-2006)
9-8-9: PROHIBITION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, offer for
sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any display fireworks,
flame effects or consumer fireworks except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The sale and use of sparklers on public property is prohibited. (Ord.
2591, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 9
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Possession Limit
9-9-2: Restrictions On Personal Use Of Cannabis
9-9-3: Persons Under Twenty-One (21) Years Of Age
9-9-4: Penalty
9-9-1: POSSESSION LIMIT:
   (A)   No person may possess cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis-infused
product, or cannabis concentrate in excess of the possession limits set forth
in section 10-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.) (the "Act"). For purposes of this chapter, "cannabis," "cannabis flower,"
"cannabis-infused product" and "cannabis concentrate" shall have the meanings
set forth in the Act.
   (B)   Except as may be authorized in the Act, for a person who is twenty-one
(21) years of age or older and a resident of this state, the possession limit
is as follows:
      1.   Thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower;
      2.   No more than five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in
cannabis-infused product;
      3.   Five (5) grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      4.   For registered qualifying patients, any cannabis plants grown under
subsection (b) of section 10-5 of the Act, provided any amount of cannabis
produced in excess of thirty (30) grams of raw cannabis or its equivalent must
remain secured within the residence or residential property in which it was
grown.
   (C)   For a person who is twenty-one (21) years of age or older and who is
not a resident of this state, the possession limit is as follows:
      1.   Fifteen (15) grams of cannabis flower;
      2.   Two and a half (2.5) grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      3.   Two hundred fifty (250) milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-
infused product.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly obtain, seek to obtain, or possess an amount
of cannabis from a dispensing organization that would cause him or her to
exceed the possession limits under this section, including cannabis that is
cultivated by a person under the Act or obtained under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
9-9-2:      RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS:
   (A)   No person may possess, use or consume cannabis in such a manner as to
constitute a violation of section 10-35 of the Act.
   (B)   Possession of cannabis is prohibited in the following described
locations:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      3.   In any correctional facility;
      4.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
      5.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises.
   (C)   Use or consumption of cannabis is prohibited in the following
described locations:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      3.   In any correctional facility;
      4.   In any motor vehicle;
      5.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      6.   In a public place; or
      7.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
   (D)   Smoking cannabis is prohibited in any place where smoking is
prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
   (E)   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, watercraft, or snowmobile while using or under the
influence of cannabis in violation of section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, section 15-16 of the Boat Registration and Safety Act,
or section 5-7 of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act is prohibited.
   (F)   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed to
use cannabis under the Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act is prohibited.
   (G)   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to the Act or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act is prohibited.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a "public place" shall mean any place
where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others. "Public
place" includes all parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by
the city, the state or a unit of local government. "Public place" includes all
areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole
or in part, leased, or managed by the city, the state or a unit of local
government. "Public place" does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster care, or
similar social service care on the premises. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019; amd. Ord.
3180, 12-16-2019)
9-9-3: PERSONS UNDER TWNETY-ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age, or
to allow a person under twenty-one (21) years of age, to purchase, possess,
use, process, transport, grow or consume cannabis except where authorized by
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act or by the Community
College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
the age of twenty-one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of this
section.
   (C)   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall present or offer to a
cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business establishment's
principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that is false,
fraudulent, or not actually the person's own, for the purpose of:
      1.   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain cannabis or any cannabis product; or
      2.   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment. (Ord. 3177, 12-
2-2019)
9-9-4: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each separate offense. (Ord. 3177, 12-2-2019)
TITLE 10
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this title the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this chapter:
ALLEY:        A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots or
              buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
              Any motorized off-highway device designed to travel primarily off-highway,
              fifty (50) inches or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of
ALL-TERRAIN   one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds or less, traveling on three (3)
VEHICLE:      or more non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator
              use, and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except
              equipment such as lawnmowers.
AUTOCYCLE:    A three (3)-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating that
              does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it.
BICYCLES:     Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
              having two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
              That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the connections
              of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the street
              measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the
              traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
              street, that part of the street included within the extension of the
CROSSWALK:    lateral line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the street without
              the sidewalk, with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline
              of the street, and any portion of a street at an intersection or elsewhere
              distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on
              the surface placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted
              by the Illinois Department of Transportation as authorized in Section 11-
              301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
DRIVER:       Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
              Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department, ambulances, vehicles
EMERGENCY     carrying a state, county or municipal officer or employee in response to
VEHICLE:      an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service corporations
              on an emergency call.
              Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
              intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
              oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
EXPLOSIVE:    quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by
              concussion, by percussion, or by a detonator of any part of the compound
              or mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that
              the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructible
              effects on contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb.
              Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement for
FARM TRACTOR: drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry,
              and every implement of husbandry which is self propelled, excluding all-
              terrain vehicles and off-highway motorcycles.
FLAMMABLE     Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) or
LIQUIDS:      less, as determined by Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
              Shall include the following days only: New Years Day, Good Friday,
HOLIDAY:      Memorial Day, Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas Day
              and any and all other holidays which may be established as holidays by the
              Illinois legislature in the future.
IMPROVED      A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and crushed stone or
HIGHWAY:      gravel.
              A manufactured or assembled device consisting of an upper portion that is
              intended to be secured to a human foot, with a frame or chassis attached
IN-LINE SPEED along the length of the bottom of the upper portion, with the frame or
SKATES:       chassis holding two (2) or more wheels that are longitudinally aligned and
              used to skate or glide by means of human foot and leg power while having
              the device attached to each foot or leg. The upper portion may not extend
              more than two (2) inches above the wearer's ankle joint.
              The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
              curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
              of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
              angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
INTERSECTION: joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway includes
              two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more apart, then every crossing of
              each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting street shall be
              regarded as a separate intersection. The junction of an alley with a
              street or highway does not constitute an intersection.
LANED         A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
ROADWAY:      marked lines for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles
              during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
              A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of
              less than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that meets the requirements of
              one of the following classes: (i) "Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle"
              means a low-speed electric bicycle equipped with a motor that provides
              assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases to provide
              assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty (20) miles per hour;
LOW-SPEED     (ii) "Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle" means a low-speed electric
ELECTRIC      bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the
BICYCLE:      bicycle and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle
              reaches a speed of twenty (20) miles per hour; (ii) "Class 3 low-speed
              electric bicycle" means a low-speed electric bicycle equipped with a motor
              that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases
              to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty eight
              (28) miles per hour. A low-speed electric bicycle is not a moped or a
              motor driven cycle.
              A two (2) or three (3)-wheeled device with fully operable pedals and a
LOW-SPEED GAS gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on a paved
BICYCLE:      level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an
              operator who weighs one hundred seventy (170) pounds, is less than twenty
              (20) miles per hour.
              A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging roadways to
MERGING       permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof, wherein
TRAFFIC:      the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
              speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other
              vehicle.
METAL TIRES:  Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is wholly or
              partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
              Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is propelled
MOTOR         by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not operated
VEHICLE:      upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
              wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles.
              Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
MOTORCYCLE:   designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
              ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
MOTORIZED     Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled vehicle, designed
WHEELCHAIR:   for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable of a speed
              in excess of eight (8) miles per hour on level ground.
OFF-HIGHWAY   Any motorized device designed to travel primarily off-highway on two (2)
MOTORCYCLE:   wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator, upon or by
              which any person, persons or property may be transported or drawn.
              To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
PARK:         temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
              passengers.
              A mechanical device located upon a public street or sidewalk in a place
PARKING       designated by the council as a "parking meter zone" hereafter defined,
METER:        which device shall record a certain number of minutes by the use of a
              clock determining the period of time for which parking privileges may be
              extended to the person depositing a coin therein.
PARKING METER An area designated by the council where a vehicle may be temporarily
ZONE:         parked and allowed to remain for the period of time indicated on the
              meter.
PEDESTRIAN:   Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a person with
              a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
PNEUMATIC     Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the load.
TIRE:
              Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle
              and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole, or by
POLE TRAILER: being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
              used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles,
              pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves
              as beams between the supporting connections.
PROPERTY      The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or property
LINE:         abutting thereon.
PUBLIC        A building used by the municipality, the county, any park district, school
BUILDING:     district, the state, or the United States government.
              The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
RIGHT OF WAY: preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
              circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger
              of collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
              Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not
ROAD TRACTOR: so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
              part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
              The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive
SAFETY ZONES: use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or indicated by
              adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
              safety zone.
              Every motor vehicle owned or operated by or for any of the following
              entities for the transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students
              in grade 12 or below in connection with any activity of such entity: (i)
              any public or private primary or secondary school; (ii) any primary or
              secondary school operated by a religious institution; or (iii) any public,
              private or religious nursery school. A school bus does not include: (x) a
              bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation, or common carrier
SCHOOL BUS:   authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers
              when such bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is on a
              regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other fare paying
              passengers; furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
              field trips or other special trips or in connection with other special
              events; or being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
              other educational facilities; (y) a motor vehicle of the first division;
              or (z) a multifunction school-activity bus.
              Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed
SEMITRAILER:  for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle
              and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests
              upon or is carried by another vehicle.
SIDEWALK:     That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the adjacent
              property line designated for pedestrian use.
SOLID TIRE:   Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not depend
              upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR     The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained,
HIGHWAY:      when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the purpose of
              vehicular traffic.
              Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
TRAFFIC:      whether singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of
              travel.
              Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
TRAILER:      trailer, designed for carrying passengers or property and for being drawn
              by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests
              upon the towing vehicle.
              Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles
              and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight
TRUCK-        of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as property
TRACTOR:      motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
              transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or
              general freight, on a backhaul.
              The territory contiguous to and including any street which is built up
URBAN         with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses situated
DISTRICT:     at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
              quarter mile or more.
              Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
              transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
VEHICLE:      under Section 3-101(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, except devices moved
              by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks
              and snowmobiles as defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
              When required by an official sign the act of granting the privilege of the
              immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within the
YIELD RIGHT   intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left; provided,
OF WAY:       that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
              intersection. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. 466, 12-8-1964; Ord. 694, 5-15-1972;
              2020 Code)
 
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT; SIGNALS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Obedience To Police Officers
10-2-2: Traffic At Scene Of Fire
10-2-3: Signs And Signals
10-2-4: Traffic Control Signal Legend
10-2-5: Flashing Signals
10-2-6: Lane Control Signals
10-2-7: Pedestrian Control Signals
10-2-8: Unauthorized Signs
10-2-9: Interference With Signs Or Signals
10-2-10: Animals Or Bicycles
10-2-11: Exemptions
10-2-12: Advertising Signs
10-2-1: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
Members of the police department, and special police assigned to traffic duty,
are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions
of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a policeman. Except in case of emergency
it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt
to direct traffic. (1963 Code)
10-2-2: TRAFFIC AT SCENE OF FIRE:
The fire department officer in command or any officer in command or any fireman
designated by him, may exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in
directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the fire department has
responded to an emergency call for so long as fire department equipment is on
the scene in the absence of or in assisting the police. (1963 Code)
10-2-3: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the mayor and by
and with the advice and consent of the council, or in accordance with the laws
of the state, excepting on direction of a police officer. All signs and signals
established by direction of the governing body shall conform to the Illinois
state "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways".
(1963 Code)
10-2-4: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      3.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady Yellow Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is
shown and no pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing Yellow Arrow Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians fa cing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk that crosses the lane or lanes
used to depart the intersection by traffic controlled by the flashing yellow
arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully
within the intersection at the time that the flashing yellow signal indication
is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady Red Indication:
      1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 3.5 of this subsection,
vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      2.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 3.5 of this subsection,
vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the
intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering
the intersection to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
shown.
      3.   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular traffic
facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street, after
stopping as required by paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of this subsection. After
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the right of way
to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      3.5   After stopping as required by paragraph 1 or 2 of this subsection,
the driver of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails
to change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than
120 seconds because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to
detect the arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle's size or
weight, shall have the right to proceed, after yielding the right of way to
oncoming traffic facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign as required by Section 11-1204 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
      4.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall not
enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal or flashing red signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or
a marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1963 Code; amd. 2020 Code)
10-2-5: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing Red Stop Signal: When a red light is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing Yellow, Caution Signal: When a yellow light is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. (1963 Code)
10-2-6: LANE CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever lane control signals are used in conjunction with official signs, they
shall have the following meaning:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow: A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red "X" symbol: A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
   (C)   Yellow "X" (steady): A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow: A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn. (1963 Code;
amd. 2020 Code)
10-2-7: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait", or "Don't Walk" are in place such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   "Walk": Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the
driver of all vehicles.
   (B)   "Wait" or "Don't Walk": No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the "Wait" or "Don't Walk" signal is showing. (1963 Code)
10-2-8: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any
person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any other sign
which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, and
no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon
any highway any traffic or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be
removed by any policeman. (1963 Code)
10-2-9: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal. (1963 Code)
10-2-10: ANIMALS OR BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks. (1963
Code)
10-2-11: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall slow
down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red or stop sign
or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
The provisions of this title regulating the movement and parking of vehicles
shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in installing,
repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street pavements. (1963 Code)
10-2-12: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the city any sign, signal, marking
or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the council or the
state department of public works and buildings, which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it shall be unlawful to place
or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful traffic control device.
It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or highway
any flashing or rotating beacon of light. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 3
THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Through Streets
10-3-2: One-Way Streets Or Alleys
10-3-3: Stop Streets
10-3-4: Posting Signs
10-3-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance of a through street and
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer or a traffic control signal.
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to be through
streets:
   (A)   3rd Street from the west line of Galena Avenue to the west line of
Sherman Avenue.
   (B)   East 3rd Street from the east line of Galena Avenue to Steel Avenue.
   (C)   East Fellows Street from North Galena Avenue to the city limits.
   (D)   Peoria Avenue from the south end of Peoria Avenue Bridge to the city
limits.
   (E)   Brinton Avenue from East Body Street to the city limits.
   (F)   North Peoria Avenue from the north end of the Peoria Avenue Bridge to
Everett Street.
   (G)   Depot Avenue from the south line of 6th Street to the north line of
9th Street.
   (H)   Galena Avenue from the south line of Rock River to the city limits.
   (I)   North Galena Avenue from the north line of Rock River to the city
limits.
   (J)   East 2nd Street from the east line of Galena Avenue to the city
limits.
   (K)   Everett Street from the west line of Galena Avenue to the city limits.
   (L)   7th Street from the west line of Chicago Avenue to the east line of
Lincoln Avenue.
   (M)   Chicago Road from 7th Street to the city limits.
   (N)   2nd Street from the west line of Galena Avenue to the east line of
College Avenue. (1950 Code)
   (O)   College Avenue from the north line of 1st Street to the south line of
3rd Street. (Ord. 39, 4-22-1952)
   (P)   Lincoln Avenue from the north line of 1st Street southerly to the city
limits. (Ord. 16, 8-28-1951)
   (Q)   Lincoln Way from the west line of North Galena Avenue to Everett
Street. (1950 Code)
   (R)   Sherman Avenue from the south line of 2nd Street to the north line of
4th Street. (Ord. 8, 5-8-1951)
   (S)   1st Street from the east line of College Avenue to the east line of
Van Buren Avenue. (Ord. 39, 4-22-1952)
   (T)   East Chamberlin Street from the east line of North Dement Avenue to
the west line of Boarman Place.
   (U)   North Jefferson Avenue from the north line of Fellows Street to the
south line of Morgan Street. (Ord. 16, 8-18-1953)
   (V)   East Bradshaw Street from the east line of North Ottawa Avenue to the
west line of North Dixon Avenue. (Ord. 92, 9-28-1954)
10-3-2: ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys in any direction other than that so designated.
The following streets and alleys or portions thereof are hereby declared to be
one-way streets and alleys:
   (A)   Easterly on Lincoln Statue Drive from the east line of North Peoria
Avenue to the west line of North Hennepin Avenue. (1950 Code)
   (B)   Westerly on Commercial Alley from the west line of Ottawa Avenue to
the east line of Galena Avenue; so that said Commercial Alley from henceforth
on shall be a one-way alley running westerly from Ottawa Avenue to the east
line of Galena Avenue. (Ord. 494, 11-9-1965)
   (C)   Northerly on alley bisecting block number fifteen in the original town
(now city) of Dixon from the north line of 2nd Street to the south line of 1st
Street.
   (D)   Northerly on alley bisecting block number sixteen in the original town
(now city) of Dixon from the north line of 2nd Street to the south line of 1st
Street. (1950 Code)
   (E)   Easterly on Everett Street from the east line of the junction of
Everett Street and Lincoln Way to the west line of the intersection of Everett
Street and North Peoria Avenue. (Ord. 137, 12-22-1955)
   (F)   Easterly in Truman Court from east line of Galena Avenue to the west
line of Ottawa Avenue. (Ord. 363, 8-1-1961)
   (G)   Westerly on 8th Street from the west line of Hennepin Avenue to the
east line of Peoria Avenue. (Ord. 2234, 4-3-2000)
   (H)   Southerly on Sterling Road from the south line of McKenney Street to
the north line of Morgan Street. (Ord. 2774, 3-1-2010)
10-3-3: STOP STREETS:
The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to this title, at one or
more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles
not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so
close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection
is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with. (1963 Code)
10-3-4: POSTING SIGNS:
The chief of the police department, with the consent of the council, shall post
or cause to be posted suitable signs for all through streets, one-way streets
or alleys and stop intersections, and all other signs relative to regulating
traffic or vehicles. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RULES FOR DRIVING
SECTION:
10-4-1: Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersection
10-4-2: Turning On The Crest Of A Hill
10-4-3: Starting Parked Vehicle
10-4-4: Driver's Signal
10-4-5: Emerging From Alleys, Driveways Or Garages
10-4-6: Driving On Sidewalks; Safety Zones
10-4-7: Right Of Way
10-4-8: Vehicle Turning Left
10-4-9: Limitations On Turning Around
10-4-10: U-Turns
10-4-11: No Left Turn
10-4-12: Fire Department Vehicles; Fires
10-4-13: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway
10-4-14: Passing Vehicles
10-4-15: Overtaking Vehicles
10-4-16: Overtaking Vehicles On The Right
10-4-17: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left
10-4-18: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
10-4-19: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
10-4-20: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
10-4-21: Reckless Or Careless Driving
10-4-22: Adoption Of Illinois Vehicle Code By Reference
10-4-1: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, or as
indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (B)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right one-half (1/2) of the roadway
nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline
where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection, or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (C)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway. (1963 Code)
10-4-2: TURNING ON THE CREST OF A HILL:
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred feet (500'). (1963 Code)
10-4-3: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1963 Code)
10-4-4: DRIVER'S SIGNAL:
No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or attempt to turn
without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to apprise others
who might be affected by his action.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
   (B)   A signal or intention to turn right or left shall be given during not
less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before
turning.
The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand and arm
or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or
loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and
rear of such vehicle then the signals must be given by such a lamp or device.
All signals herein required to be given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed, hand and arm extended downward. (1963
Code)
10-4-5: EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a sidewalk
line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in driving
upon the sidewalk or across such lines. (1963 Code)
10-4-6: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS; SAFETY ZONES:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone. (1963 Code)
10-4-7: RIGHT OF WAY:
Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching an
intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two (2) vehicles entering an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the
right. (1963 Code)
10-4-8: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1963 Code)
10-4-9: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so as
to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety
and without backing into traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic. (1963
Code)
10-4-10: U-TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited. Such prohibition shall be indicated by
appropriate signs. (1963 Code)
10-4-11: NO LEFT TURN:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn left at any place
where such turns are prohibited. Such prohibition shall be indicated by
appropriate signs. (1963 Code)
10-4-12: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES; FIRES:
Upon the approach of a fire department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provision of this chapter relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on official
business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm, closer than
one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped to answer a fire alarm.
It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the fire department without the consent of the fire chief
or the assistant in command. (1963 Code)
10-4-13: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the right
one-half (1/2) of the roadway except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   (B)   When the right one-half (1/2) of a roadway is closed to traffic while
under construction or repair.
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon.
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle. (1963 Code)
10-4-14: PASSING VEHICLES:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1963 Code)
10-4-15: OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1963 Code)
10-4-16: OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lines of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right on a one-way street, or on any street on which traffic is restricted to
one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstruction and of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving vehicles. (1963 Code)
10-4-17: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right, or a distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign
manual adopted by the state department of public works and buildings.
      4.   The limitations in subsections (B)1 and (B)2 of this section shall
not apply upon a one-way street, or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction
when such movement can be made with safety. (1963 Code)
10-4-18: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven on
the right of such island. (1963 Code)
10-4-19: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into three (3) or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all other consistent
herewith shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
centerline is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the direction of every such sign.
(1963 Code)
10-4-20: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when the driver
is giving audible signal by siren or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the highway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway. (1963 Code)
10-4-21: RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city of Dixon in a reckless
or wanton manner so as to endanger the life or property of others. (Ord. 535,
11-1-1966)
10-4-22: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE BY REFERENCE:
   (A)   The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et
seq., as amended and as may be amended, is hereby adopted by reference in its
entirety as if the same were fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of any provision of the Illinois vehicle
code adopted by reference in subsection (A) of this section shall be the
penalty specified for the violation by the Illinois vehicle code, or any
amendments thereto. Where the Illinois vehicle code does not provide a specific
penalty for the violation, the penalty shall be a fine not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2860, 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 5
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Speed Restrictions
10-5-2: Special Speed Limits While Passing Schools
10-5-3: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
10-5-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not under the
jurisdiction of the state department of public works and buildings, or the
county, in an urban district within the city at a speed in excess of thirty
(30) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles
per hour.
Provided, that if the mayor and council set other limits as provided by statute
after an engineering or traffic survey, then such limits shall govern the rate
of speed on the streets indicated in such ordinances. The chief of police shall
post appropriate signs showing such speed limits; provided further, that the
speed of all vehicles, of the second division, as defined by statute, having
two (2) or more solid tires shall not exceed ten (10) miles per hour.
The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum
speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway within the
city under the jurisdiction of the state department of public works and
buildings, or of the county, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for such
street. (1963 Code)
10-5-2: SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles
per hour, while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school during
school days when schoolchildren are present. Appropriate signs shall be posted
to indicate this restriction. (1963 Code)
10-5-3: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Motorcycles
10-6-2: Unattended Vehicles
10-6-3: Unattended Animals
10-6-4: Clinging To Vehicles
10-6-5: Toy Vehicles
10-6-6: Riding On Running Boards
10-6-7: Train Signals
10-6-8: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession
10-6-9: Drivers In A Procession
10-6-10: Funeral Procession To Be Identified
10-6-11: Backing
10-6-12: Restricted Access
10-6-13: Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets (Rep. by Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-6-14: Limited Load Streets (Rep. by Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-6-15: School Buses
10-6-16: Special School Crossing
10-6-17: Unnecessary Repetitive Driving
10-6-18: Engine Brakes
10-6-1: MOTORCYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon any motorcycle other than upon
a seat permanently attached to the vehicle to the right or rear of the
operator. (1963 Code)
10-6-2: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is running;
and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline unless the
vehicle is secured against moving.
Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge or
causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of the
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety. (1963 Code)
   (A)   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter:
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designated to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides, and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
   (B)   Abandonment Of Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle within
the city and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for
such time and render such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to
appear to have been abandoned.
   (C)   Leaving Of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles On Street: No person shall
leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any
street or highway within the city. (Ord. 526, 9-6-1966)
   (D)   Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles: No person in charge or
control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than
seven (7) days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property
within the city for a period longer than seven (7) days; except that this
chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building; a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operating in a lawful place
and manner when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city. (Ord. 2314, 3-19-2001)
   (E)   Impounding: The chief of police or any member of his department
designated by him is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle
left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation
of this chapter or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/20-301.
   (F)   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 526, 9-6-1966)
10-6-3: UNATTENDED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in any
street without having such animal securely fastened. (1963 Code)
10-6-4: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle, motorcycle,
or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach himself or his vehicle to any
moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1963 Code)
10-6-5: TOY VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1963 Code)
10-6-6: RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board or
outside step of any vehicle. (1963 Code)
10-6-7: TRAIN SIGNALS:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a signal
device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop within
fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest track of
such railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade crossing when
a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman, or automatic signal warns of the
approach of a train.
The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any school bus
carrying any schoolchildren, or any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable
liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less
than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and
look in both directions along such track from which a train might come, before
proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided, that no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a traffic control
signal directs traffic to proceed. (1963 Code)
10-6-8: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. (1963 Code)
10-6-9: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right
hand side of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as practical and safe. (1963 Code)
10-6-10: FUNERAL PROCESSION TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying
insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted. (1963 Code)
10-6-11: BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic. (1963
Code)
10-6-12: RESTRICTED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority. (1963 Code)
No person shall drive a vehicle onto a street or highway from a railroad right
of way except at such entrances to the street or highway as are approved by the
city council. (Ord. 1368, 7-6-1987)
10-6-13: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-6-14: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-6-15: SCHOOL BUSES:
The driver of a vehicle on any street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of
which the roadway for traffic moving in opposite directions is separated by a
strip of ground at least four feet (4') wide which is not surfaced or suitable
for vehicle traffic, need not stop his vehicle upon meeting or passing a school
bus which is on the opposite roadway. (1963 Code)
10-6-16: SPECIAL SCHOOL CROSSING:
No driver of any vehicle shall enter into or upon or across the specially
designated crossing across Galena Avenue for schoolchildren at a point located
approximately seventy five feet (75') south of the intersection of Galena
Avenue and 5th Street, while the red signal light protecting said crossing is
flashing, without first coming to a complete stop at or before the designated
pavement line designating the crossing, and after coming to a complete stop,
shall not cross the crossing, until he can do so with safety and without danger
to any child or other pedestrian using the crossing. (Ord. 65, 9-15-1953)
10-6-17: UNNECESSARY REPETITIVE DRIVING:
   (A)   Definitions:
   DESIGNATED AREA:
      1.   The south side of Hardee's parking lot and drive-through, located at
7th Street and Galena Avenue in the city; and
      2.   The entire parking lot area of the Plaza North Shopping Center.
These designated areas shall be clearly marked with permanent fixed signs
advising the public that the area is subject to regulation under this section.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: An area of public access to privately owned property where
an enforcement agreement is being entered into by and between the owners of the
property and the city under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-7 and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT: A clearly identified reference point within a
designated area upon private property as determined and marked from time to
time by the Dixon police department.
   UNNECESSARY REPETITIVE DRIVING: Defined as driving a motor vehicle, upon
private property past a traffic control point as designated by the Dixon police
department more than twice in any one hour period between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 1588, 6-10-1991;
amd. Ord. 1597, 6-17-1991)
   (B)   Offense: No person shall engage in "unnecessary repetitive driving" as
defined in this section.
   (C)   Exclusions: This section shall not apply to any municipal, emergency,
police, fire, ambulance or other governmental vehicle when same is being
operated in an official capacity. In addition, this section shall not apply to
any duly licensed public transportation vehicle nor to any vehicle utilized for
business and/or commercial purposes.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1588, 6-10-
1991)
10-6-18: ENGINE BRAKES:
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be used or operated within the
city limits of the city of Dixon, Illinois, any engine braking system that
emits an excessive noise, except in case of emergency. For purposes of this
section, "engine brake" is defined to include any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting
engine power to compressed air. The police department shall provide notice of
said prohibition by posting clearly visible signs at all truck routes entering
the city stating:
      EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (B)   A violation of this section is an equipment violation punishable by a
fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2637, 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Right Of Way
10-7-2: Pedestrians Crossing Roadway
10-7-3: Signals
10-7-4: Standing On Sidewalk
10-7-5: Pedestrian Crossing
10-7-6: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
10-7-7: Blind Pedestrians; Right Of Way
10-7-8: Penalty
10-7-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
Where traffic control signals or pedestrian control signals provided for in
chapter 2 of this title are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right of way to a pedestrian crossing the roadway or
street within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk. (Ord.
1570, 12-4-1990)
Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection
or a marked crosswalk between intersections the pedestrian shall have the right
of way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places drivers of vehicles
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any pedestrian within or
entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right of
way over any vehicle so stopped.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the
purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (1963 Code)
10-7-2: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAY:
At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most direct
route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other than a
crosswalk he shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety zone, if
such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic. (1963 Code)
10-7-3: SIGNALS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a stop and go
signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other than
with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of
traffic. (1963 Code)
10-7-4: STANDING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other pedestrians. (1963 Code)
10-7-5: PEDESTRIAN CROSSING:
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district. (1963 Code)
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections where there is a marked crosswalk,
pedestrians shall cross a roadway within the marked crosswalk. (Ord. 1570, 12-
4-1990)
10-7-6: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step
off to the left.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle. (1963 Code)
10-7-7: BLIND PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT OF WAY:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities. (2020 Code)
10-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013)
CHAPTER 8
PARKING
SECTION:
10-8-1: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
10-8-2: Interference With Snow Removal
10-8-3: Interference With Street Cleaning
10-8-4: Time Limit Parking
10-8-5: Towing Cars Away
10-8-6: Presumption Of Liability
10-8-7: Parking At Curb
10-8-8: Vehicles For Sale
10-8-9: Loading Zones
10-8-10: All Night Parking
10-8-11: Parking In Alleys
10-8-12: Cab Stands; Bus Stands
10-8-13: Parking Vehicles On Private Property
10-8-14: Erection Of Parking Signs
10-8-15: Truck Parking Restricted
10-8-15-1: Trailers, Campers, And Boats On Streets
10-8-16: Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets
10-8-17: Storage Fees
10-8-18: Penalty
10-8-1: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this
subparagraph h. shall result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500)
or fifty (50) hours of community service.
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or digital registration sticker or current
temporary permit pending registration.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway;
         (e)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (1963
Code; amd. 2020 Code)
10-8-2: INTERFERENCE WITH SNOW REMOVAL:
   (A)   At such times as there is an accumulation of two inches (2") of snow
on the streets in the city or the city has declared a snow emergency, it shall
be unlawful for any driver or owner of any vehicle to obstruct the orderly
removal of snow from the city's streets, alleys or public ways by parking,
permitting to be parked or otherwise leaving unattended any motor vehicle upon
the following streets, alleys and public ways:
      1.   Any street, alley or public way which has been designated as a snow
route by the city.
      2.   On the even side of the street (as indicated by address) on odd days
(as indicated by date) between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      3.   On the odd side of the street (as indicated by address) on even days
(as indicated by date) between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
The parking restrictions of this subsection shall terminate block by block as
soon as the accumulated snow has been removed from the full width of the
street, and at such time regular parking regulations shall go back into effect
immediately. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to permit
parking on streets where parking is otherwise restricted or prohibited.
   (B)   Any other provisions of this code notwithstanding, parking or standing
of any vehicles shall be prohibited in city parking lots between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day after a snowfall
of two inches (2") or more has accumulated.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to
the streets contained in the central business district as set forth in section
10-8-10 of this chapter.
   (D)   Any motor vehicle parked or standing in violation of this section may
be towed or moved to another location or to a city impoundment area by city
vehicle or private towing service. No vehicle towed to a city impoundment area
shall be released to the owner, lienholder, or other person entitled to
possession unless proper proof of entitlement to possession is first furnished
to the city and all storage charges and towing charges incurred by the city are
paid to the city. The owner and lienholder of motor vehicles parked or standing
in violation of this chapter shall not be entitled to any claim for damages to
any motor vehicle unless wilful and wanton misconduct shall be established.
   (E)   In addition to the provisions of subsection (D) of this section, any
person who violates the provisions of subsection (A), (B) or (C) of this
section may pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the
sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) within ten (10) days after notice of such
violation is attached to the vehicle operated by such person. Any person who
fails to pay the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) within ten (10) days may
pay the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) in full satisfaction of the
penalty for such violation. Any person who fails to pay the sum of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) within ten (10) days and further fails to pay the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) within twenty (20) days after the date of such
violation shall be subject to arrest or other legal process for violation of
this section and upon conviction by the circuit court, such person shall be
subject to a penalty of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each parking violation. (Ord.
2854, 12-5-2011)
10-8-3: INTERFERENCE WITH STREET CLEANING:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when such street is being cleaned. Signs
indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted
immediately before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the
cleaning of the street is finished. (1963 Code)
10-8-4: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   (A)   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle for more than one hour in any consecutive period of time between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in any area
designated as a restricted parking area. (1963 Code)
   (B)   No person shall allow any motor vehicle owned, controlled or driven by
him to be parked, with or without occupants therein, on the south side of East
1st Street from the east line of the intersection of East 1st Street with
Galena Avenue to a point one hundred feet (100') east of the east line of
Galena Avenue on East 1st Street, for more time than is necessary to make
banking deposits at the City National Bank during the hours between nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of each week and during the hours between nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturdays of each week;
or at any place or location on the south side of East 1st Street heretofore
designated wherein parking is limited as shown by "No Parking" or "Limited
Parking" signs erected or placed at said location. (Ord. 135, 11-29-1955)
   (C)   No person shall allow any motor vehicle owned, controlled or driven by
him to be parked on the bridge across Rock River at Peoria Avenue, except at
the places as may hereafter be indicated by white painted lines upon the
pavement of the bridge for the parking of vehicles and then only within such
lines so indicating such purpose and such parking shall be permitted only for a
period of not to exceed two (2) hours at any one time between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday,
and between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
on Saturday, holidays excepted. (Ord. 9, 5-8-1951)
10-8-5: TOWING CARS AWAY:
   (A)   The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle: 1) which is illegally
parked, or 2) which blocks the use of a fire hydrant, or 3) which obstructs or
may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle, or 4) which has been parked
in any public street or other public place for a period of twenty four (24)
consecutive hours.
   (B)   The officer responsible for the towing of any such vehicle shall,
within twenty four (24) hours of the tow, notify the registered owner of the
vehicle via U.S. mail of the tow, the location of the vehicle, and the payment
necessary to restore the vehicle to its owner, along with notification that the
vehicle owner has the opportunity to contest the propriety of the tow before
the mayor of the city of Dixon within three (3) business days of the tow. The
decision of the mayor as to the propriety of the tow is subject to judicial
review pursuant to the provisions of the administrative review law, as now or
hereafter amended, and all rules adopted pursuant to that law. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, actual written notice as herein specified delivered to the owner
within twenty four (24) hours of the tow shall constitute sufficient notice
under this section.
   (C)   Cars so towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a public
garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof
after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing or storing such
vehicles. (Ord. 2343, 8-20-2001)
10-8-6: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and is subject to the penalty therefor. (Ord. 1101, 7-20-1981, eff.
9-1-1981)
10-8-7: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such marks. (1973 Code)
Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be permitted to park along either
side of Galena Avenue between 7th Street and the Chicago And Northwestern
Railroad structure at the south corporate limits of the city of Dixon. Parking
in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal parking being hereby
expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be so executed that the
wheels of the vehicle nearest the curb shall be not farther away from the curb
than twelve inches (12"). Parking will not be permitted within the limits of
intersections as determined by the state from intersection studies. (Ord. 858,
6-7-1976)
Parking shall be permitted along the south side of East 2nd Street between
Ottawa Avenue and Steele Avenue. Parking in this area shall be parallel parking
only, diagonal parking being hereby expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking
shall be so executed that the wheels of the vehicle nearest the curb shall be
not farther away from the curb than twelve inches (12"). Parking will not be
permitted within the limits of intersections as determined by the state from
intersection studies. (Ord. 914, 8-1-1977)
10-8-8: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (1963 Code)
10-8-9: LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any place designated by the
mayor and council as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the
following designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curbs
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   (B)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open. (1963 Code)
10-8-10: ALL NIGHT PARKING:
No person shall park or permit to be parked any vehicle between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day except physician
or emergency calls, on any city streets within the central business district,
which central business district shall be defined as: the north side of River
Street to the south side of 2nd Street from the east side of Crawford Avenue to
the west side of Highland Avenue. (Ord. 2854, 12-5-2011)
10-8-11: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1963 Code)
10-8-12: CAB STANDS; BUS STANDS:
No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated
by ordinance as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in
a place so designated as a bus loading zone. (1963 Code)
10-8-13: PARKING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property without
the consent of the owner of the property. (1963 Code)
10-8-14: ERECTION OF PARKING SIGNS:
The chief of police or any other person authorized by the mayor and council
shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1963 Code)
10-8-15: TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED:
   (A)   General Restrictions: No person shall allow any truck or trailer truck
owned or driven by him to be parked, with or without occupants therein, upon
any street in any residential district of the city for a period of time longer
than sixty (60) minutes within one 24-hour period; excepting however, service
trucks or trailers representing business, manufacturing or utility companies
servicing residences within the particular residential district, which trucks
or trailers shall be permitted to park in the district for a period of time
long enough to take care of the particular business or mission occupying its
time, and no longer. (Ord. 226, 6-24-1958)
   (B)   Restrictions In Residential Districts And Residences Within Business
Districts:
      1.   Limited Parking: All vehicles with an Illinois state license plate
of higher than a "B" classification (or an out of state equivalent) as defined
in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815 or of a height of ninety inches (90")
or more are prohibited from parking or being stored on any premises zoned as a
residential district under title 6, chapter 9 of this code, on any premises
used solely as a residence within any business district under title 6, chapter
10 of this code, or any street in a residential district for more than two (2)
hours, other than in a completely enclosed garage, except for and during the
time said vehicle is making a delivery, being loaded or unloaded, or rendering
a service at such premises or on such street. Except as provided above, it
shall be unlawful for any person to use property in a residential district or
property used solely as a residence within a business district for the storage
of said vehicles, even though said vehicle shall be owned or operated by the
owner of said property, and such storage shall not constitute or be construed
as the making of a delivery or the rendering of a service, and shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 2690, 4-21-2008)
      2.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational type vehicles, including, but
not limited to, camping trucks or trailers, shall not be parked in any front
yard, except upon a regularly constructed residential driveway. However, upon
notification to the police department, owners of recreational type vehicles may
park their vehicle in their front yard for a period not to exceed forty eight
(48) hours for loading or unloading.
      3.   Operation Of Refrigeration Units: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate or permit to operate, or for the owner of any premises to
operate or permit to operate, the engine, motor or refrigeration unit of any
second division vehicle, as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-217,
for a period in excess of fifteen (15) minutes while said unattended vehicle is
loading, unloading, parked or stationary during the hours of eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. through seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day in all zoning
districts other than in an M-1 manufacturing district.
      4.   Penalty: Any violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable,
upon conviction, by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Any and each violation shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 1794, 3-22-1994)
10-8-15-1: TRAILERS, CAMPERS, AND BOATS ON STREETS:
   (A)   Detached Trailers, Pickup Campers And Boats: For purposes of this
section, "trailer" means any wheeled vehicle without motor power and designed
to be drawn by a motor vehicle. A "pickup camper" means a camper body capable
of being loaded onto or unloaded from or to the bed of a truck.
      1.   No trailer shall be detached from a towing vehicle and left standing
in any public right of way.
      2.   No pickup camper shall be unloaded from a truck and left standing in
any public right of way.
      3.   No boat, whether resting on a trailer or standing by itself, shall
be left standing on any public right of way, whether or not attached physically
to a motor vehicle. (Ord. 2623, 2-5-2007)
10-8-16: PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
No person shall park any vehicle, with or without occupants, upon the following
portions of the following streets:
On the east side of Highland Avenue from 1st Street to Commercial Alley.
On the east side of Galena Avenue from 7th Street south to the city limits.
On the south side of River Street for a distance of one hundred thirty feet
(130') west from the intersection of River Street and Hennepin Avenue.
On the east side of North Peoria Avenue for a distance of thirty feet (30')
south from the intersection of North Peoria Avenue and Everett Street.
On the west side of North Peoria Avenue for a distance of one hundred feet
(100') south from the intersection of North Peoria Avenue and Everett Street.
On the south side of Everett Street for a distance of one hundred feet (100')
westerly from the intersection of Everett Street and North Peoria Avenue.
On either side of North Peoria Avenue between Rock River and Boyd Street.
On the north side of Everett Street for a distance of one hundred fifty feet
(150') westerly of North Galena Avenue. (1950 Code)
On the west side of Dixon Avenue from the south line of 1st Street to the north
line of 2nd Street. (Ord. 52, 3-3-1953)
On either side of Dixon Avenue between 2nd and 3rd Street. (Ord. 138, 12-22-
1955)
On the north side of Lincoln Statue Drive from North Galena Avenue to North
Hennepin Avenue. (Ord. 113, 5-31-1955)
On either side of Bradshaw Street from a point one hundred fifty feet (150')
east of the east line of North Galena Avenue, and the west line of North
Jefferson Avenue. (Ord. 132, 10-4-1955)
On Chicago Avenue between 7th Street and Popular Street. (Ord. 251, 10-28-1958)
On the north side of North Forest Drive and the north side of South Forest
Drive and on both sides of the street connecting North and South Forest Drives.
(Ord. 291, 11-3-1959)
On 7th Street from the east line of the intersection of 7th Street and Galena
Avenue to the west line of the intersection of 7th Street and Crawford Avenue.
(Ord. 292, 11-12-1959)
On Commercial Alley from the west line of Ottawa Avenue west to the west line
of Highland Avenue. (Ord. 295, 11-17-1959)
On both sides of Church Court from the south line of 2nd Street to the north
line of 3rd Street. (Ord. 337, 11-1-1960)
On both sides of North Peoria Avenue extended between the north line of the
intersection of North Peoria Avenue and Everett Street and the south line of
the intersection of North Peoria Avenue extended and Lincoln Way. (Ord. 255, 6-
27-1961)
On either side of Galena Avenue from the north corporate limits to 2nd Street.
On either side of Everett Street from Peoria Avenue to Galena Avenue.
On either side of 4th Avenue from a point seven hundred five and five tenths
feet (705.5') south of its intersection with North Galena Avenue north to the
intersection.
On either side of River Street from a point approximately fifty feet (50') east
of Galena Avenue to the intersection of Hennepin Avenue. (Ord. 373, 12-19-1961)
On 4th Avenue from the north line of the intersection of Palmyra Avenue and 4th
Avenue to the south line of the intersection of 4th Avenue and North Galena
Avenue. (Ord. 376, 3-20-1962)
On Everett Street from the west line of the intersection of Peoria Avenue and
Everett Street to the east line of the intersection of Everett Street and
Lincoln Way. (Ord. 395, 11-6-1962)
On both sides of River Street and on 2nd Street between the west line of the
intersection of Ottawa Avenue and River Street, and the east line of Hennepin
Avenue and River Street; and from the west line of Ottawa Avenue and the east
line of Hennepin Avenue on 2nd Street, be, and the same, is hereby prohibited,
except for short time parking by vehicles using the city hall services and for
the parking of fire equipment of said 2nd Street west of Galena Avenue. (Ord.
496, 11-23-1965)
On either side of Palmyra and Everett Streets (designated Illinois Route and
U.S. Route Alternate 30) between 4th Avenue and Peoria Avenue. (Ord. 504, 2-15-
1966)
On both sides of Peoria Avenue, between the Peoria Avenue Bridge at the south
terminus thereof, to a point one hundred sixty five feet (165') south of the
centerline of 1st Street and Peoria Avenue. (Ord. 517, 5-17-1966)
Along either side of Chicago Avenue (marked Illinois Route 52) between the
intersection of Chicago Avenue and Franklin Grove Road and Poplar Street and
the southerly city limits of the city at the southeastern terminus of said
Chicago Avenue within the corporate limits within the city. (Ord. 638, 7-7-
1970)
On both sides of West 3rd Street between the west line of the intersection of
South Galena Avenue and 3rd Street and the east line of the intersection of
South Hennepin Avenue and 3rd Street. (Ord. 648, 10-27-1970)
Within the limits of the intersection of North Galena and North Court Street as
determined by the state from intersection studies. (Ord. 781, 6-3-1974; amd.
Ord. 1047, 9-2-1980)
Either side of East 2nd Street, Illinois Route 2, between Galena Avenue and
Ottawa Avenue.
The north side of East 2nd Street, Illinois Route 2, between Ottawa Avenue and
Steele Avenue.
Either side of Ravine Avenue, Illinois Route 2, between Steele Avenue and River
Street. (Ord. 914, 8-1-1977)
On the north side of Chamberlin Street from Galena Avenue to Institute
Boulevard and within the limits of the intersections of Chamberlin Street with
Galena Avenue, Brinton Avenue and Institute Boulevard as determined by
intersection studies. (Ord. 925, 1-16-1978)
On the south side of Idlewild Drive. (Ord. 943, 4-17-1978; amd. Ord. 1026, 1-7-
1980; Ord. 1246, 11-5-1984)
On the north side of East 3rd Street between Artesian Avenue and Steele Avenue
between November 15 and March 15, only. (Ord. 1064, 2-17-1981)
On the north side of Hubbell Drive between 4th Avenue and Ferris Street. (Ord.
1167, 2-22-1983)
From a point four hundred fifty feet (450') north of the centerline of Apple
Street and Brinton Avenue on both sides of Brinton Avenue to the intersection
of Brinton Avenue and Timbercreek Road. (Ord. 1202, 10-17-1983)
On Galena Avenue from 7th Street to the southerly boundaries of the city to
take effect immediately upon the state opening a four (4) lane highway on
Galena Avenue from 7th Street to the southerly boundaries of the city. (Ord.
1228, 5-21-1984)
On the west side of Highland Avenue from 7th Street to 11th Street. (Ord. 1245,
11-5-1984)
Along either side of Galena Avenue from 7th Street to Illinois 5. (Ord. 1323,
5-5-1986)
The north side of Boyd Street from Galena Avenue to Brinton Avenue. (Ord. 1353,
1-20-1987)
On both sides of East 2nd Street, Illinois Route 2, from Galena Avenue easterly
on Illinois Route 2, to Crawford Avenue, a distance of approximately eight
hundred feet (800'). Parking shall be prohibited thirty feet (30') in advance
of stop signs within the limits of the intersection of all side streets
intersecting East 2nd Street, Illinois Route 2. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this paragraph shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00)
nor more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1484, 6-5-
1989)
The south side of 6th Street from Crawford Avenue to Dement Avenue. (Ord. 1502,
9-18-1989)
The west side of Brinton Avenue from North Court Street to five hundred feet
(500') north of Apple Street and both sides of Brinton Avenue from five hundred
fifty feet (550') north of Apple Street to Timber Creek. (Ord. 1514, 1-17-1990)
Both sides of 8th Street and Poplar Street from Inlet Avenue to Chestnut
Avenue. (Ord. 1517, 2-5-1990)
The north side of Morgan Street from Brinton Avenue to Sterling Avenue. (Ord.
1535, 5-21-1990)
The east side of Hennepin Avenue from 1st Street to 2nd Street. (Ord. 1536, 5-
21-1990)
The east side of Moss Street from 1st Avenue to Swiss Street, the south side of
Center Street from 4th Avenue to 1st Avenue, and the south side of Armedia
Street from 2nd Avenue to Tile Factory Road. (Ord. 1582, 5-6-1991)
The north side of West 7th Street from Depot Avenue to Monroe Avenue. (Ord.
1665, 6-1-1992)
The west side of Jay Dee Avenue from 7th Street to 9th Street and the north
side of 9th Street from Jay Dee Avenue westerly approximately one hundred
twenty feet (120'). (Ord. 1943, 7-1-1996)
The west side of Elm Place from Pine Street to Ash Court and the south side of
Pine Street from Elm Place to Walnut Street. (Ord. 1949, 8-5-1996)
Either side of Illinois Route 2 from Ravine Avenue to White Oaks Lane in the
city. (Ord. 2138, 3-1-1999)
10-8-17: STORAGE FEES:
The owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle towed away pursuant
to this code and stored on or in any city property, city parking lots, city
garages or city car compounds, shall pay to the city, in addition to any
penalties, towing charges, costs or expenses incurred by the city in removing
and storing said vehicle, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for storage
fees for each day or portion thereof the vehicle is stored. Storage fees shall
be paid before the vehicle is released to the owner or operator. (Ord. 2592, 6-
19-2006)
10-8-18: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who violates the
provisions of this chapter may pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of
such violation the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) within seventy two (72) hours
after the date notice of such violation is attached to the vehicle owned or
operated by such person. Any person who fails to pay the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) within seventy two (72) hours may pay the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) within ten (10) days of the date of such violation in full
satisfaction of the penalty for such violation. Any person who fails to pay the
sum of ten dollars ($10.00) within seventy two (72) hours and further fails to
pay the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) within ten (10) days after the date of
such violation shall be subject to arrest or other legal process for the
violation of this chapter, and upon conviction by the circuit court, such
person shall be subject to a penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each violation. (Ord. 2590, 6-
19-2006)
CHAPTER 9
CONDITION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Clear Vision
10-9-2: Signal Lamps
10-9-3: Mufflers; Unnecessary Noise
10-9-4: Horn
10-9-5: Gas And Smoke
10-9-6: Projecting Loads; Width, Length And Height
10-9-7: Brakes
10-9-8: Lights
10-9-9: Firemen; Special Lights
10-9-10: Nonskid Devices
10-9-11: Tires
10-9-12: Weight
10-9-13: Spilling Loads
10-9-14: Bicycles; Equipment
10-9-15: Driving Unsafe Vehicles Prohibited
10-9-1: CLEAR VISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle with the
view of the roadway to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror
so attached as to give him a view of the roadway behind him. (1963 Code)
10-9-2: SIGNAL LAMPS:
Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signals shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty
four inches (24"), or when the distance from the center of the top of the
steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen
feet (14'). The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, also to
any combination of vehicles. (1963 Code)
10-9-3: MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cutout is prohibited. (1963 Code)
10-9-4: HORN:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device shall be
sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a vehicle, but
such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any purpose other
than as a warning of impending danger.
No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a siren
or gong signaling device. (1963 Code)
10-9-5: GAS AND SMOKE:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1963 Code)
10-9-6: PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTH, LENGTH AND HEIGHT:
The maximum width, length and height of any vehicle and its load shall not
exceed the limits expressed in the state traffic law.
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side thereof.
No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than two (2)
units, but such limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in daytime when
transporting pipes, poles, machinery and other objects which cannot be readily
dismembered, nor to such vehicles operated at nighttime by a public utility
when engaged in emergency repair work; but such loads carried at night shall be
clearly marked with sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3') in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle. (1963 Code)
10-9-7: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicles. (1963 Code)
10-9-8: LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not equipped
with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law; provided,
that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street or
portion thereof, designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles may so park
at nighttime. (1963 Code)
10-9-9: FIREMEN; SPECIAL LIGHTS:
Any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a fireman may be equipped with not
to exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without glare. One such
lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing blue light may
be used only when such fireman is responding to a fire call. (1963 Code)
10-9-10: NONSKID DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped with
any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible portion thereof
comes into contact with the pavement, or roadway. (1963 Code)
10-9-11: TIRES:
It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(1963 Code)
10-9-12: WEIGHT:
It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law, or in violation of special weight limits provided for
by law and signposted. (1963 Code)
10-9-13: SPILLING LOADS:
No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on any
street or alley in the city. (1963 Code)
10-9-14: BICYCLES; EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
which shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to six
hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting a steady or flashing
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may
be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren. This subsection does not apply to a bicycle that is a police
vehicle or fire department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle. (2020 Code)
10-9-15: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with some lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation to this chapter. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PENALTIES; ARRESTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Liquor Or Drugs; Driving Under Influence Of
10-10-2: Accidents; Duty To Render Aid
10-10-3: Accidents; Reports
10-10-4: Arrests
10-10-5: Tickets
10-10-1: LIQUOR OR DRUGS; DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF:
It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street. (1963 Code)
10-10-2: ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO RENDER AID:
The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting in
personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle
at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event remain at the scene of the accident
until the requirements of Section 11-403 of the Illinois Vehicle Code have been
fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary. The driver shall give his or her name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall upon request
and if available exhibit such driver's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person. (2020 Code)
10-10-3: ACCIDENTS; REPORTS:
The driver of a vehicle that is in any manner involved in an accident within
the city resulting in injury to or death of any person, in which damage to the
property of any one person, including him or herself, in excess of one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), or five hundred dollars ($500.00) if any of
the vehicles involved in the accident is not covered by a liability insurance
policy in accordance with Section 7-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code is
sustained, shall, if no police officer is present, give notice of the accident
by the fastest means of communication to the police department.
Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving immediate
notice of an accident as required herein and there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such other occupant
shall give, or cause to be given, the notice not given by the driver.
Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report of an
accident as required herein and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle,
then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, within ten (10)
days after learning of the accident, make such report not made by the driver.
(Ord. 126, 9-13-1955; amd. Ord. 699, 6-19-1972; 2020 Code)
10-10-4: ARRESTS:
Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title shall be
released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute. The police
officer in command at the station may, in the absence of a police magistrate or
justice, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance; provided, that
any arrested person may at his own request, have the amount of such bond set by
a magistrate or justice of the peace as provided by statute. (Ord. 725, 11-6-
1972)
10-10-5: TICKETS:
For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving, police
officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle, and name of
the offender where possible, may issue a traffic violation ticket notifying the
offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases. The
officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the offender does
not appear at the time and place so specified. (Ord. 725, 11-6-1972)
CHAPTER 11
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Restricted Parking Time Zone
10-11-2: Parking Rules
10-11-3: Designated Restricted Parking Time Zones
10-11-4: Parking Lots
10-11-5: Posting Official Signs
10-11-6: Marking Places
10-11-7: Leasing Of Stalls
10-11-8: Parking Zones For Persons With Disabilities
10-11-9: Presumption Of Liability
10-11-10: Penalties
10-11-11: USF&G Parking Lot
10-11-12: Fifteen Minute Parking
10-11-13: Display Of Vehicles For Sale
10-11-1: RESTRICTED PARKING TIME ZONE:
Restricted parking time zones shall be such as may from time to time be
established by the City Council. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-2: PARKING RULES:
   (A)   Restricted Parking Zones; Maximum Time Limit Parking: It shall be
unlawful for anyone to allow a vehicle to remain parked on any of the streets
or in any of the parking lots designated as a restricted parking time zone in
section
10-11-3 of this chapter for a period exceeding two (2) consecutive hours. (Ord.
1440, 7-18-1988)
   (B)   Exceptions: The maximum time limit parking rules stated above shall
apply between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday of each week. The
parking rules stated above shall apply on Fridays between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. The restrictions concerning
parking shall not apply on Sundays or legal holidays or during emergencies. The
City Council further reserves the authority to suspend parking rules during
designated period of time by resolution approved by a majority of the members
of the City Council. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-3: DESIGNATED RESTRICTED PARKING TIME ZONES:
   (A)   Both sides of 1st Street from Crawford Avenue to Madison Avenue.
   (B)   Both sides of Hennepin Avenue from River Street to 3rd Street.
   (C)   Both sides of Peoria Avenue from 1st Street to 2nd Street.
   (D)   Both sides of Ottawa Avenue from River Street to 2nd Street.
   (E)   Both sides of 2nd Street from Hennepin Avenue to Peoria Avenue.
   (F)   The following parking lots:
      1.   The off street parking lot owned by the City and located at the
northwest corner of 2nd Street and South Ottawa Avenue;
      2.   The off street parking lot owned by the City and located between
Galena Avenue and South Ottawa Avenue and between River Street and Commercial
Alley and known as the Massey Parking Lot;
      3.   The off street parking lot owned by the City and located between
Galena Avenue and Hennepin Avenue and between River Street and Commercial Alley
and known as the Beanblossom Parking Lot.
   (G)   Both sides of Crawford Avenue from River Street to 2nd Street.
   (H)   Reserved.
   (I)   The west side of Crawford Avenue from 2nd Street to 3rd Street from
eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on Monday through Friday
of each week.
   (J)   The east side of Ottawa Avenue from 2nd Street to 3rd Street from
eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on Monday through Friday
of each week.
   (K)   The north side of Lincoln Statue Drive from North Peoria Avenue to
North Hennepin Avenue from eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00)
P.M. on Monday through Friday of each week.
   (L)   The east side of Highland Avenue from West 1st Street to West 2nd
Street.
   (M)   The north side of West 2nd Street from Highland Avenue to South Peoria
Avenue. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987; amd. Ord. 1440, 7-18-1988; Ord.
1572, 12-17-1990; Ord. 2125, 11-16-1998; Ord. 2566, 1-17-2006; Ord. 2719, 1-5-
2009; Ord. 3134, 4-15-2019; Ord. 3444, 4-7-2025)
10-11-4: PARKING LOTS:
All off street parking lots owned by the city shall be under the jurisdiction
of the department of public health and safety. Said parking lots shall permit
parking without a fee. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-5: POSTING OFFICIAL SIGNS:
The chief of police shall have signs conspicuously posted in all city parking
lots designating the allowed duration for which a motor vehicle may be parked
in a city owned parking lot. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-6: MARKING PLACES:
The chief of police shall have markings painted or placed upon the curb of the
street for the purpose of designating the parking space and the angle which the
vehicles are parked to the curbs. Each vehicle parking within any parking time
zone or in any parking lot shall park within the line or markings so
established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
marking or to park said vehicle in such position that the same shall not be
entirely within the area designated by such line or markings. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-
1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-7: LEASING OF STALLS:
The chief of police and the city clerk are hereby authorized to lease parking
stalls in the city owned parking lots. Upon renting a parking stall, the chief
of police shall cause a sign installed designating the lessee of said stall.
Parking stalls shall be leased at the rate of sixty dollars ($60.00) for six
(6) months and shall be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. during each day of the lease agreement. Said lease agreements shall
provide that the lessee shall comply with the provisions of section
10-8-2 of this title which prohibits the parking of any vehicles in the city
parking lots between the hours specified in said section on any day after the
snowfall of two inches (2") or more has accumulated. (Ord. 1984, 3-17-1997,
eff. 5-1-1997; amd. Ord. 2854, 12-5-2011)
10-11-8: PARKING ZONES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to designate and enforce parking
stalls for "persons with disabilities only" in the city owned parking lots and
on such streets as are designated "parking for persons with disabilities only".
Said stalls shall be clearly identified.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates specified in Section 11-
1301.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or such devices as the city authorities
deem proper as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with
disabilities or to a disabled veteran, may park, in addition to any other
lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved by the posting of an
official sign or designated in some other manner for such vehicle. Parking
privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to the person to whom
the special registration plates were issued and to qualified operators acting
under his express direction while the disabled person is present.
   No other person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
where such area has been designated as a parking space for persons with
disabilities.
   Special decals for parking for persons with disabilities shall be issued by
the police department to persons who are considered a person with disabilities
as defined by Section 5/1-159.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to Section 5/3-609 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The placement
of the decal shall be established by the police department.
   A person with disabilities shall include those persons who are temporarily
physically disabled. Those persons temporarily physically disabled may be
issued a special decal for parking for persons with disabilities upon
presentation of information to the police department who may issue such decal.
The term of such temporary parking privileges shall not exceed ninety (90)
days. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987; amd. Ord. 1952, 8-19-1996)
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating a provision of this section shall
be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. 2757, 10-5-2009)
   (C)   The following shall be designated as parking spaces for disabled
persons: "persons with disabilities only" parking stall for one parking stall
located on the north side of 2nd Street between Highland Avenue and the alley
immediately next to the U.S. Post Office. (Ord. 2101, 7-6-1998; amd. 2020 Code)
10-11-9: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to penalty therefor. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-
1987)
10-11-10: PENALTIES:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who violates the
provisions of this chapter, may pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction
of such violation, the sum of four dollars ($4.00) within seventy two (72)
hours after notice of such violation is attached to the vehicle operated by
such person. Any person who fails to pay the sum of four dollars ($4.00) within
seventy two (72) hours may pay the sum of seven dollars ($7.00) in full
satisfaction of the penalty for such violation. (Ord. 1952, 8-19-1996)
Any person who fails to pay the sum of four dollars ($4.00) within seventy two
(72) hours and further fails to pay the sum of seven dollars ($7.00) within ten
(10) days after the date of such violation shall be subject to arrest or other
legal process for the violation of the Parking Ordinance of the City, and upon
conviction by the Circuit Court, such person shall be subject to a penalty of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each parking violation. (Ord. 1366, 6-15-1987, eff. 7-1-1987)
10-11-11: USF&G PARKING LOT:
   (A)   No person shall remain on, loiter or park a vehicle, or cause or allow
a vehicle under his control to remain parked on the off street parking lot
owned by the City and located between Galena Avenue and Hennepin Avenue and
between 1st Street and 2nd Street in block 16 of the City, commonly known as
the USF&G Parking Lot, between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M., without first having entered into a written lease
agreement with the City for parking stalls located on said lot.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection (A) of this section
shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 1604, 7-15-1991)
10-11-12: FIFTEEN MINUTE PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to allow a vehicle to remain parked for longer
than fifteen (15) minutes on that portion of the following streets:
   (A)   The west side of Highland Avenue between 2nd Street and the entrance
to the U.S. Post Office parking lot.
   (B)   The north side of 2nd Street between Highland Avenue and the alley
immediately next to the U.S. Post Office. (Ord. 2101, 7-6-1998)
   (C)   The north side of East 3rd Street from South Galena Avenue to South
Ottawa Avenue.
   (D)   The north side of West 2nd Street from South Galena Avenue to South
Hennepin Avenue. (Ord. 3134, 4-15-2019)
10-11-13: DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to use any parking lot available for use by the public
(whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers)
for storage or parking of any vehicle, boat or trailer for the purpose of
displaying the vehicle, boat or trailer for sale. Provided, however, the
restrictions contained in this section shall not apply if the legal owner of
the parking lot is the titled owner of the vehicle, boat or trailer stored,
parked or offered for sale. (Ord. 2446, 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 12
BICYCLES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Definitions
10-12-2: Parents' Responsibility
10-12-3: Traffic Laws Apply
10-12-4: Registration Program Provided
10-12-5: Registration Application
10-12-6: Issuance Of Registration
10-12-7: Transfer Of Ownership
10-12-8: Rules Of The Road
10-12-9: Prohibited Areas
10-12-10: Regulations
10-12-11: Penalties
10-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
BICYCLE: A vehicle having two (2) wheels in a tandem arrangement, of which one
or both wheels is sixteen (16) or more inches in diameter, which is propelled
solely by human power, and upon which one or more persons may ride.
BICYCLIST: A person operating or in actual physical control of a bicycle,
including a person on foot walking a bicycle.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: The area located within the following boundaries: on
the north, the Rock River; on the south, the middle of 2nd Street; on the east,
the middle of Crawford Avenue; on the west, the middle of South Monroe Avenue.
FRAME NUMBER: An identifying number permanently stamped or cast on the frame of
a bicycle.
PEDESTRIAN: A person on foot or on skateboard, excluding a person on foot
walking a bicycle.
PUSH SCOOTER: A single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled by human
power and which has a mechanism for steering and/or braking the movement or
direction of the platform.
PUSH SCOOTERIST: A person operating or in actual physical control of a push
scooter including a person walking a push scooter.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
travel, including the sidewalk.
ROLLERBLADER: A person wearing or in actual physical control of rollerblades.
ROLLERBLADES: Devices which are worn on the feet or attached to shoes, on which
are mounted wheels which are aligned in a straight line, and which are
propelled by human power.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a highway designed or ordinarily used for pedestrian
travel.
SKATEBOARD: A single platform mounted on wheels, which is propelled by human
power or mechanical in nature, and which has no mechanism or other device with
which to steer or to control the direction of the platform. Skateboards shall
be deemed to include longboards, hoverboards and other items of a similar
nature and use.
SKATEBOARDER: A person operating or in actual physical control of a skateboard.
VEHICLE: Every device, excluding skateboards, rollerblades, wagons,
wheelchairs, unicycles, tricycles and other children's toys in or upon by which
any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a roadway or
sidewalk. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981; amd. Ord. 1433, 6-20-1988; Ord. 1561, 10-1-
1990; Ord. 1833, 8-1-1994; Ord. 2753, 9-8-2009; Ord. 2988, 1-19-2016)
10-12-2: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY:
The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-3: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle except as otherwise provided and except
as to those provisions of this title which, by their nature, can have no
application. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-4: REGISTRATION PROGRAM PROVIDED:
A bicycle registration program shall be provided by the city, under the
jurisdiction of the chief of police. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-5: REGISTRATION APPLICATION:
Application for a bicycle registration shall be made upon a form provided by
the city and shall be made to the chief of police. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-6: ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION:
The chief of police, upon receiving proper application therefor, is authorized
to issue a bicycle registration which shall be effective for the life of the
bicycle. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-7: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
Upon the sale or other transfer of a registered bicycle the registrant or the
new owner shall contact the chief of police and make new application reflecting
said changes in ownership. (Ord. 1085, 6-1-1981)
10-12-8: RULES OF THE ROAD:
   (A)   Rules Of The Road For Bicyclists: Persons operating a bicycle shall
obey the following rules of the road:
      1.   No bicyclist shall carry any article which prevents the use of both
hands in the control and operation of the bicycle. A bicyclist shall keep at
least one hand on the handlebars at all times.
      2.   No bicyclist shall attach his bicycle or himself to any vehicle upon
the roadway or sidewalk. This subsection shall not prohibit attaching a trailer
or semitrailer to a bicycle if that trailer or semitrailer is designed for such
attachment.
      3.   Every bicyclist on a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle, except as to the provisions of this chapter and except as to the
provisions of laws and other ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
      4.   No bicyclist shall operate a bicycle recklessly or at a speed faster
than is reasonable and proper or in a manner so as to endanger the life, limb
or property of the bicyclist or of any other person.
      5.   Every bicyclist shall give a signal of his intention to turn right
or left continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by his vehicle before turning and shall give a signal while his
vehicle is stopped, waiting to turn. A hand or arm signal need not be given
continuously if the hand is needed in the control or operation of his vehicle.
      6.   Bicyclists on a roadway shall not ride two (2) abreast. Bicyclists
operating vehicles on a roadway shall not impede the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic.
      7.   Bicycles may be parked:
         (a)   On any sidewalk where such parking is not prohibited by official
traffic control devices and where such parking will not unreasonably obstruct
pedestrian or other traffic;
         (b)   On the roadway at any angle to the curb or edge of the roadway
at any location where parking of vehicles is allowed; or
         (c)   On the roadway abreast of other bicycles near the side of the
roadway at any location where the parking of vehicles is allowed.
      8.   A bicyclist may park his vehicle near and secure it to any publicly
owned pole or post for a period of not more than twelve (12) consecutive hours,
unless an official traffic control device or any applicable law or ordinance
prohibits parking and/or securing bicycles at that location.
      9.   Bicycles shall not be secured to any tree, fire hydrant or police or
fire call box.
      10.   No bicyclist shall remove his hands from the handlebars or feet
from the pedals or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any public street,
roadway, sidewalk, alley or public right of way.
      11.   No bicycle shall be ridden or propelled on any public street,
roadway, sidewalk, alley or public right of way or upon any public path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles within one-half (1/2) hour before
sunset and one-half (1/2) hour after sunrise unless such bicycle is equipped
with an adequate headlamp mounted on the front and a red reflector or a red
taillamp mounted on the rear.
   (B)   Rules Of The Road For Skateboards And Rollerblades: Persons riding
skateboards or wearing rollerblades shall obey the following rules of the road:
      1.   Obey all stop signs, traffic signals, yield signs, and such other
traffic control devices.
      2.   When in the roadway, travel to the far right side of the roadway.
      3.   Yield the right of way to pedestrians whenever and wherever they are
encountered.
      4.   Not impede or interfere with the flow of vehicular traffic.
      5.   Yield to approaching vehicles when entering any roadway.
      6.   When on sidewalks, proceed with due care and at a safe speed.
      7.   Not allow any other person or persons to ride the skateboard
simultaneously with the person operating the skateboard.
      8.   Not operate a skateboard recklessly, or in such a manner to cause
danger or injury to the skateboarder or to others.
      9.   No rollerblader shall attach his/her rollerblades or himself/herself
to any vehicle upon the roadway or sidewalk. No skateboarder shall attach his/
her skateboard or himself/herself to any vehicle upon the roadway or sidewalk.
(Ord. 1833, 8-1-1994)
10-12-9: PROHIBITED AREAS:
   (A)   Sidewalks And Crosswalks:
      1.   No person shall operate any vehicle other than a bicycle,
skateboard, rollerblades or push scooter upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area.
      2.   A person operating a bicycle, skateboard, rollerblades or push
scooter upon a sidewalk or across a roadway upon a crosswalk shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal before
overtaking and passing any pedestrian. (Ord. 1833, 8-1-1994)
   (B)   Use Of Bicycles And Push Scooters Prohibited In Certain Areas: No
person shall operate a bicycle or push scooter in any portion of the city where
such use of bicycles or push scooters is prohibited by official traffic control
devices or in any portion of the central business district except upon
roadways, public streets, public alleys, or designated and marked bicycle
routes. Operators of bicycles and push scooters shall dismount and walk his or
her bicycle or scooter upon any portion of the central business district where
the use of bicycles and push scooters is prohibited. (Ord. 2765, 11-16-2009)
   (C)   Use Of Skateboards Prohibited In Central Business District: No person
shall operate a skateboard upon a sidewalk, roadway, public street, alley or
public right of way in the central business district or in any portion of the
city where such use of skateboards is prohibited by official traffic control
devices.
   (D)   Use Of Rollerblades Prohibited In Central Business District: No person
shall skate with rollerblades upon any sidewalk, roadway, public street, alley
or public right of way in the central business district from nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Friday, from nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday through Thursday, or in any portion
of the city where such use of rollerblades is prohibited by official traffic
control devices. (Ord. 1833, 8-1-1994)
10-12-10: REGULATIONS:
The chief of police or his designee is authorized to establish all written
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1433,
6-20-1988)
10-12-11: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or by suspension of or
disqualification from the registration of the violator's bicycle, or by
impoundment of the violator's bicycle for a period of not to exceed thirty (30)
days, or by any combination thereof. (Ord. 2913, 6-3-2013)
CHAPTER 13
PARADES, PROCESSIONS, DEMONSTRATIONS AND MARCHES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Regulation Of Parades, Processions, Demonstrations Or Marches
10-13-2: Unlawful Parade, Procession, Demonstration Or March
10-13-3: Hour Limitation On Parades, Processions, Demonstrations Or Marches
10-13-4: Public Conduct
10-13-5: Penalty
10-13-1: REGULATION OF PARADES, PROCESSIONS, DEMONSTRATIONS OR MARCHES:
No person, group of persons, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind shall use the public streets and sidewalks
of the city for parades, processions, demonstrations, or marches, pedestrian or
vehicular, or a combination thereof, in conflict with any of the traffic
ordinances, laws or regulations of the city, whereby normal pedestrian or
vehicular traffic may be impeded, hindered or obstructed, except upon
notification in writing to the mayor a reasonable time before the parade,
procession, demonstration or march and include in such notification the
following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, group of
persons, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
planning such a parade, procession, demonstration or march, responsible for its
conduct.
   (B)   The commencement time of the parade, procession, demonstration or
march; the specific route to be traveled; the starting point and the
termination point.
   (C)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles expected to
participate in such parade, procession, demonstration or march together with a
description of the type of animals and vehicles involved.
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Funeral processions proceeding by vehicle under the most reasonable
route from the funeral home, church or residence of the deceased to the place
of interment;
      2.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its function.
Upon receipt of such notification above described, the mayor or his designated
agent shall furnish to the person, group of persons, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization making such notification a
written acknowledgment of receipt of said notification.
In the event that notification shows that the parade, procession, demonstration
or march will unreasonably interfere with the rights of others to use the
streets and sidewalks with respect to time, route or composition, the mayor
shall direct that the plan for the parade, procession, demonstration or march
shall be appropriately adjusted, with the provision that such change in plan
shall be delivered to the person or group notifying the mayor at least twenty
four (24) hours prior to the proposed beginning time of the parade, procession,
demonstration or march.
In the event that the mayor receives notification of more than one parade,
procession, demonstration or march to be held on the same date, the mayor may
route each of said parades, processions, demonstrations or marches so that they
will not conflict with each other. The first notice should have priority over
later notices. (Ord. 1215, 2-3-1984)
10-13-2: UNLAWFUL PARADE, PROCESSION, DEMONSTRATION OR MARCH:
It shall be unlawful to participate in any manner in a parade, procession,
demonstration or march on the public streets or sidewalks as described herein
prior to compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1215, 2-3-1984)
10-13-3: HOUR LIMITATION ON PARADES, PROCESSIONS, DEMONSTRATIONS OR MARCHES:
It shall be unlawful to participate in any manner in any parade, procession,
demonstration or march between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. (Ord. 1215, 2-3-1984)
10-13-4: PUBLIC CONDUCT:
   (A)   Interference: No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with any parade, procession, demonstration or march or with any
person, vehicle or animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving Through Parades: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade, procession, demonstration or march
when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as
a parade, procession, demonstration or march.
   (C)   Parking On A Parade, Procession, Demonstration Or March Route: The
chief of police shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade, procession, demonstration or
march. The chief of police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. (Ord. 1215, 2-3-1984)
10-13-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than seventy five
dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 1215, 2-3-1984)
CHAPTER 14
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Definitions
10-14-2: Enforcement And Inspection
10-14-3: Registration
10-14-4: Equipment
10-14-5: Speed Restrictions
10-14-6: Operation On Private Property
10-14-7: Operation On Roadways
10-14-8: Miscellaneous Rules And Regulations
10-14-9: Dates And Hours Of Operation
10-14-10: Age Of Operator
10-14-11: Other Prohibitions
10-14-12: Impoundment
10-14-13: Penalties
10-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
COWLING: The forward portions of a snowmobile surrounding the motor and clutch
assembly.
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
OWNER: Any person, other than a lienholder, having title to a snowmobile. The
term includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a snowmobile
subject to an interest in another person, reserved or created by agreement and
securing payment or performance of an obligation, but the term excludes a
lessee under a lease not intended as security.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or other
entity.
REGISTER: The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-2: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION:
Every person operating a snowmobile shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter, and to the provisions of the snowmobile registration and safety act.
Police officers may stop and inspect any snowmobile at any time for the purpose
of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and/or
compliance with the snowmobile registration and safety act. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-
2010)
10-14-3: REGISTRATION:
No person shall operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city
of Dixon unless such snowmobile has been registered and numbered in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois snowmobile registration and safety act. The
following classes of snowmobiles need not be registered:
   (A)   Snowmobiles owned and used by the United States or a political
subdivision, but such snowmobiles shall display the name of the owner on the
cowling thereof.
   (B)   Snowmobiles covered by a valid registration or license of another
state, province or country which is the domicile of the owner of the snowmobile
and is not operated within this state on more than thirty (30) consecutive days
in any calendar year.
   (C)   Snowmobiles owned and operated on lands owned by the owner or operator
of the snowmobile or on lands which the owner or operator has contracted to
purchase or lease (other than as a member of a club or association), provided
the snowmobile is not operated elsewhere in the state. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-4: EQUIPMENT:
No person shall operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city
of Dixon unless such snowmobile complies in all respects with equipment
requirements under the snowmobile registration and safety act. (Ord. 2797, 11-
1-2010)
10-14-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
Unless some other speed restriction is established by the posting of speed
limit signs under the authority of the city of Dixon police department, the
maximum speed limit for snowmobiles shall be as follows: Fifteen (15) miles per
hour in all areas of the city. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-6: OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No snowmobile shall be operated on private property without the written or
verbal consent of the owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating a
snowmobile upon lands of another shall stop and identify himself or herself
upon the request of the landowner or his duly authorized representative, and,
if requested to do so, shall promptly remove the snowmobile from the premises.
(Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-7: OPERATION ON ROADWAYS:
No persons shall operate any snowmobile on a street, road or sidewalk within
the city of Dixon except public highways or streets designated by the city for
the use of snowmobiles. The city shall erect and maintain signs giving proper
notice of such routes for the use of snowmobiles. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-8: MISCELLANEOUS RULES AND REGULATIONS:
No person shall operate a snowmobile:
   (A)   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and the fact that the
speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
allowed does not relieve the operator from the duty to decrease speed as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or object within legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care;
   (B)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner;
   (C)   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
taillamp;
   (D)   At any time with less than a four inch (4") natural accumulation of
snow. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-9: DATES AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
Snowmobiles may be operated in the city only from December 15 to March 15 of
the succeeding year. No snowmobile may be operated in the city except during
the following designated times: Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-10: AGE OF OPERATOR:
No person shall operate a snowmobile within the city without a valid driver's
license. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-11: OTHER PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his or her possession unless it is unloaded and
enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow unless it is unstrung in a carrying
case.
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile emitting pollutants in
violation of any standards established under the environmental protection act.
   (C)   No person shall deposit from a snowmobile on the snow, ice, or ground
surface, any trash, glass, garbage, soluble material, or other offensive
matter.
   (D)   No person shall use a snowmobile to take, pursue or intentionally
harass or disturb pets, or wildlife as defined in section 1.2t of the wildlife
code, except such restrictions shall not apply to any person acting to protect
livestock or pets from predatory animals. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-12: IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Every snowmobile subject to this chapter and to the snowmobile
registration and safety act, if underway and upon being hailed by a police
officer, must stop immediately.
   (B)   City police officers may seize and impound, at the owner's expense,
any snowmobile involved in an accident, a violation of subsection
10-14-8(B) of this chapter or violation of section 5-7 of the snowmobile
registration and safety act.
   (C)   If a snowmobile is causing a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or is impeding traffic, its immediate removal from the
highway or private property adjacent to the highway by a towing service may be
authorized by city police officers.
   (D)   Whenever a police officer reasonably believes that a person under
arrest for a violation of section 5-7 of the snowmobile registration and safety
act or subsection
10-14-8(B) of this chapter is likely to commit a subsequent violation of
section 5-7 of the snowmobile registration and safety act or subsection
10-14-8(B) of this chapter, the arresting officer shall have the snowmobile
which the person was operating at the time of the arrest impounded for a period
of not more than twelve (12) hours after the time of the arrest. The snowmobile
may be released by the city police department without impoundment, or may be
released prior to the end of the impoundment period, however, if: 1) the
snowmobile was not owned by the person under arrest and lawful owner requesting
release of the snowmobile possesses proof of ownership and would not, as
determined by the city police department, indicate a lack of ability to operate
a snowmobile in a safe manner, or otherwise, by operating the snowmobile, be in
violation, or 2) the snowmobile is owned by the person under arrest and the
person under arrest gives permission to another person to operate the
snowmobile, and the other person would not, as determined by the city police
department, indicate a lack of ability to operate a snowmobile in a safe
manner, or otherwise be in violation of this chapter or of the snowmobile
registration and safety act. (Ord. 2797, 11-1-2010)
10-14-13: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction thereof, fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2797,
11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 15
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impoundment
10-15-2: Administrative Fee For Towed And Impounded Vehicles
10-15-3: Procedure For Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
10-15-4: Notice And Opportunity For Hearing
10-15-5: Release Of Vehicle
10-15-6: Administrative Review
10-15-1: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle used in the commission of any of the following violations or
offenses may be seized and impounded by the city:
   (A)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961; or
   (B)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code; or
   (C)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
   (D)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
   (E)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961; or
   (F)   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
   (G)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
   (H)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year; or
   (I)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
   (J)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois
vehicle code; or (Ord. 2862, 2-6-2012)
   (K)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 of the criminal code
of 1961; or (Ord. 2869, 4-16-2012)
   (L)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other felony offense in violation of the criminal code
of 1961. (Ord. 2862, 2-6-2012)
10-15-2: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR TOWED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The registered owner or the agent or agents of the owner shall be liable to the
city for an administrative fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00), in addition
to any and all applicable fines, costs, towing, and storage fees. The
administrative fee shall be collected by and paid to the city. Additional
towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to the person,
firm, or entity that tows and stores the vehicle impounded under this chapter
or to the city for payment to the appropriate person or entity. The
administrative fee provided for in this section shall be waived by the city
upon submission of verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time
that the vehicle was impounded. (Ord. 2862, 2-6-2012)
10-15-3: PROCEDURE FOR SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a city police officer reasonably believes that the driver of a motor
vehicle has committed an eligible offense as enumerated in section
10-15-1 of this chapter, the officer may provide for the towing of the motor
vehicle to the city impound lot or a city approved private lot. (Ord. 2862, 2-
6-2012)
10-15-4: NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING:
At the time that a motor vehicle is towed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the city shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the
owner, lessee, agent or agents, or person identifying himself or herself as the
owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of
the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the following:
   (A)   The fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's or the lessee's
right to an administrative hearing.
   (B)   The notice shall also provide that the seized motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or a lienholder, posts with the city a bond
equal to the administrative fee as set forth in this chapter and pays all
towing and storage charges.
   (C)   The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of
record shall also be provided with a written notice of administrative hearing.
The notice shall: 1) be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of
record either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested
party's address as registered with the secretary of state; 2) be served upon
such interested parties within ten (10) days after impoundment of a vehicle by
the city; and 3) contain a date, time and location of the administrative
hearing. An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty
five (45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (D)   All administrative hearings conducted pursuant to this chapter shall
be conducted by a hearing officer who is an attorney licensed to practice law
in the state of Illinois for a minimum of three (3) years. At the conclusion of
the administrative hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision
either sustaining or overruling the vehicle impoundment.
      1.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle as set forth herein shall be forfeited to the city.
      2.   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
      3.   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility
within thirty (30) days after the administrative hearing officer issues a
written decision shall be deemed abandoned and may be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of article 2 of chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code, or
as elsewhere provided for in this code.
      4.   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fee imposed
under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the administrative
review law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2862, 2-6-2012)
10-15-5: RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
Motor vehicles seized and impounded under this chapter shall remain impounded
until:
   (A)   All costs associated with the towing and storage of the motor vehicle
are paid; and
   (B)   The registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of the vehicle remits the
administrative fee to the city of Dixon police department. The city of Dixon
police department shall have the right to hold the vehicle until the costs
associated with towing, storage, and the administrative fee have been paid in
full or until the motor vehicle is released as a result of the administrative
review process, or as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2869, 4-16-
2012)
10-15-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be subject to
review under the provisions of the administrative review law. (Ord. 2862, 2-6-
2012; amd. Ord. 2869, 4-16-2012)
CHAPTER 16
DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTES, VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS AND OVERWEIGHT PERMITS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Designated Truck Routes And Other Designated Routes; Map
10-16-2: Weight Limitations On Designated Roads
10-16-3: Gross Weight Limits
10-16-4: Exempt Vehicles
10-16-5: Special Permits
10-16-6: Enforcement
10-16-7: Weighing Of Vehicles And Removal Of Excess Loads
10-16-8: Liability For Damages To Street Or Roadway Improvements
10-16-9: Fees For Police Escort
10-16-10: Overdimension Vehicles
10-16-11: Penalty
10-16-1: DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTES AND OTHER DESIGNATED ROUTES; MAP:
   (A)   The locations and designations of truck routes and other designated
routes are shown upon the city of Dixon 2014 truck route map, which is hereby
incorporated into this chapter. The city of Dixon 2014 truck route map,
together with all notations, references, and other information shown thereon,
and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this chapter and shall have the
same force and effect as if the city of Dixon 2014 truck route map, together
with all notations, references and other information shown thereon, were fully
set forth and described herein. The city of Dixon 2014 truck route map shall be
made available upon request at city hall and shall also be posted on the city
website.
   (B)   All routes so designated shall be posted with signage in accordance
with the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". (Ord. 2957, 1-5-
2015)
10-16-2: WEIGHT LIMITATIONS ON DESIGNATED ROADS:
The maximum weight limits of vehicles upon the roadways designated under
section
10-16-1 of this chapter shall be as set forth in section 15-111 of the Illinois
vehicle code and as may be amended. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-16-3: GROSS WEIGHT LIMITS:
   (A)   Designated Truck Routes: It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to
operate or cause to be operated a motor vehicle having a gross weight
(including vehicle and maximum load) in excess of the weight limitations as set
forth in section 15-111 of the Illinois vehicle code on any designated truck
route under section
10-16-1 of this chapter within the city of Dixon unless said vehicle
constitutes an exempt vehicle within section
10-16-4 of this chapter or is otherwise permitted pursuant to section
10-16-4 or
10-16-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   Nondesignated Routes: It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to
operate or cause to be operated a vehicle having a gross weight (including
vehicle and maximum load) in excess of the weight limits set forth in section
15-111 of the Illinois vehicle code on any nondesignated routes within the city
unless said vehicle constitutes an exempt vehicle within section
10-16-4 of this chapter or is otherwise permitted pursuant to section
10-16-4 or
10-16-5 of this chapter. Where city streets are posted with signage designating
a different weight limitation, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons
to operate or cause to be operated on any such street a vehicle in excess of
the posted weight limitation, unless one of the exceptions provided in section
10-16-4 of this chapter is applicable to said vehicle(s), or as otherwise
permitted pursuant to section
10-16-4 or 10-16-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-16-4: EXEMPT VEHICLES:
The following vehicles are exempt from the weight restrictions described and
set forth in sections
10-16-2 and
10-16-3 of this chapter:
   (A)   Vehicles specified as exempt under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
15-101(b) and (c) of the Illinois vehicle code;
   (B)   Vehicles which are excepted from the weight limits under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-111, including, but not limited to, vehicles for which
the department of transportation and/or local authorities have issued
overweight permits pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301 of the
Illinois vehicle code;
   (C)   Vehicles which have been issued overweight permits by Lee County for
county or township highways in Lee County and vehicles which have been issued
overweight permits by South Dixon Township for South Dixon Township highways.
(Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-16-5: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   (A)   Special Permits For Overweight Vehicles Hauling International Shipping
Containers:
      1.   Truck Route Permits: The city administrator, mayor, or the designee
of either designee ("permitting authority") upon application by a person
("permittee") and good cause being shown, may issue a special permit
authorizing a vehicle or combination of vehicles not in conformity with the
weight limitations of section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter that is hauling sealed international shipping
containers, the contents of which are considered by the Illinois department of
transportation to be indivisible, to be operated or moved upon any street or
highway under the jurisdiction of the city which has been designated a truck
route under section
10-16-1 of this chapter; provided, however, no permit shall be issued for any
vehicle hauling international shipping containers that weigh one hundred
thousand (100,000) pounds or more.
      2.   Other Route Permits: The permitting authority, upon application by a
permittee and good cause being shown, may issue a special permit authorizing a
vehicle hauling sealed international shipping containers, the contents of which
are considered by the Illinois department of transportation to be indivisible,
not in conformity with the weight limitations of section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter to be operated or moved upon any nondesignated street
or highway under the jurisdiction of the city; provided, however, no permit
shall be issued for any vehicle hauling international shipping containers that
weigh one hundred thousand (100,000) pounds or more.
      3.   Fees: The fees for special permits for overweight trucks hauling
sealed international shipping containers under this section are as follows:
 
Permit Type            Weight Class           1 Day Permit Annual Permit
Truck route permit     80,000 - 99,999 pounds $25.00       $350.00
Non-truck route permit 80,000 - 99,999 pounds 25.00        350.00
 
All special permit forms for overweight vehicles hauling international shipping
containers shall be on file at the permitting authority's office.
      4.   Application Requirements: The application for any such permit shall:
         (a)   Specifically describe the vehicle to be operated or moved;
         (b)   State if the applicant is an authorized carrier under the
Illinois motor carrier of property law ("motor carrier law"), and, if so, the
certificate, registration or permit number issued by the Illinois commerce
commission to the applicant;
         (c)   Include any request for routing to the nearest certified scale
in accordance with the Illinois department of transportation; and
         (d)   State if the vehicle or load is being transported for hire.
   (B)   Special Permits For All Other Overweight Vehicles:
      1.   Truck Route Permits: The permitting authority upon application by a
person ("permittee") and good cause being shown, may issue a special permit
authorizing a vehicle or combination of vehicles, other than vehicles hauling
sealed international shipping containers, not in conformity with the weight
regulations of section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter to be operated or moved upon any street or highway
under the jurisdiction of the city which has been designated a truck route
under section
10-16-1 of this chapter.
      2.   Other Route Permits: The permitting authority, upon application by a
permittee and good cause shown, may issue a special permit authorizing a
vehicle not in conformity with the weight limitations of section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter to be operated or moved upon any street or highway
under the jurisdiction of the city.
      3.   Fees: The fees for special permits for vehicles other than vehicles
hauling sealed international shipping containers under this section are as
follows:
Permit Type Weight Class 1 Day Permit
Permit Type                           Weight Class              1 Day Permit
                                      80,000 - 99,999 pounds    $ 25.00
Truck route permits (on streets and   100,000 - 119,999 pounds  40.00
highways designated as truck routes)  120,000 - 149,999 pounds  80.00
                                      150,000 pounds or greater 120.00
                                      80,000 - 99,999 pounds    20.00
Permits (on any roads within the city 100,000 - 119,999 pounds  40.00
for vehicles)                         120,000 - 149,999 pounds  80.00
                                      150,000 pounds or greater 120.00
 
Fees listed above are per vehicle. All special permit forms shall be on file at
the permitting authority's office.
      4.   Application Requirements: The application for any such permit shall:
         (a)   Specifically describe the vehicle and load to be operated or
moved and the particular streets or highways for which the permit to operate is
requested;
         (b)   State if the applicant is an authorized carrier under the
Illinois motor carrier of property law ("motor carrier law"), and, if so, the
certificate, registration or permit number issued by the Illinois commerce
commission to the applicant;
         (c)   State the routing requested, including the points of origin and
destination, and may identify and include a request for routing to the nearest
certified scale in accordance with the Illinois department of transportation;
and
         (d)   State if the vehicle or load is being transported for hire.
   (C)   Need For Multiple Permits: For those trucks intended to be operated
upon both a designated truck route and a nondesignated truck route, both forms
of permitting shall be necessary.
   (D)   Permits To Be Available Online: Permit applications shall be available
online. Applications shall be in a form that may be submitted online, and
permits may be issued through electronic communication that the applicant must
then print and carry within the vehicle.
   (E)   Fees To Be Deposited In Special Account: All fee payments under this
section, less any costs of administering the permitting process, shall be
deposited in an account to be used solely for maintenance, repair, and
improvement of truck routes, as designated in section
10-16-1 of this chapter, within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (F)   Permits For Vehicles For Hire: No permits for the movement of a
vehicle or load for hire shall be issued to any applicant who is required under
the motor carrier law to have a certificate, registration, or permit who does
not have such certificate, registration or permit.
   (G)   Special Conditions To Permits: The permitting authority is authorized
to withhold any permit at its discretion when such permit would be inconsistent
with traffic safety or, if such permit is issued, to limit the number of trips,
to establish seasonal or other time limitations within which the vehicle
described may be operated on the streets or highways indicated, to require
appropriate escort vehicles for the vehicle subject to the permit, or otherwise
to prescribe conditions of operation of such vehicle, when such action in the
judgment of the permitting authority is necessary to protect against undue
damage to the road foundations, surfaces, or structures.
   (H)   Permits Required To Be Carried: Every permit shall be in written form
and carried in the vehicle to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of the permitting authority. No
person shall violate any of the terms or conditions of such permit. Violation
of the terms and conditions of a permit shall not be deemed a revocation of the
permit; provided, however, any vehicle found to be off the route prescribed in
the permit shall be deemed to be operating without a permit. Any off route
vehicle shall be required to obtain a new permit or permits, as necessary, to
authorize the movement back onto the original permit routing. Nothing herein
shall be construed to authorize any police officer, court, or authorized agent
of the permitting authority to remove the permit from the possession of the
permittee unless the permittee is charged with a fraudulent permit violation.
   (I)   Violation Of Permit Does Not Void Permit; Off Route Offenses:
      1.   Violation of any rule, limitation, condition, or provision of any
permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this section shall not
render the entire permit null and void, but the violator shall be subject to
prosecution for both a violation of permit under subsection (J) of this section
and a violation of any weight or load limitations under section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter.
      2.   The prescribed route or routes constitute the sole extent of the
authorization granted by the permit. If a vehicle and/or load is found to be
off the route or routes prescribed by any permit authorizing movement, the
vehicle and/or load shall be deemed to be operating without a permit.
   (J)   Violation Of Permits; Fines And Penalties: Whenever any vehicle is
operated or movement made in violation of a permit issued in accordance with
this section, the person to whom such permit was granted, or the driver of such
vehicle, is guilty of such violation and either, but not both, persons may be
prosecuted for such violations as stated herein. Any person, firm, or
corporation convicted of such violation shall be guilty of a petty offense and
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/15-301j, and as may be amended, in addition to any fine imposed under section
10-16-11 of this chapter.
   (K)   Violation For Lack Of Required Permit: If a vehicle is required to
obtain a permit under this section, it shall be unlawful for any person, or any
employee or agent of such person, to operate such vehicle without obtaining
such permit. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be
prosecuted for such violation. Any person convicted of violating this section
shall be subject to, in addition to any fine imposed under section
10-16-11 of this chapter, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2957, 1-5-
2015)
10-16-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The city manager shall keep and maintain an accurate map showing the
location of all truck routes, as specified in section
10-16-1 of this chapter, which shall be made available to the public.
   (B)   No person shall be charged with violating the provisions of section
10-16-2 or
10-16-3 of this chapter upon any streets where the posting of signs is required
under this chapter or otherwise under law, unless such signs are currently
posted thereon. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015; amd. 2020 Code)
10-16-7: WEIGHING OF VEHICLES AND REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS:
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the gross weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit to a
weighing process by means of a portable or stationary scale that has been
tested and approved at a frequency prescribed by the Illinois department of
agriculture. If such scale is not available at the place where such vehicle is
stopped, the police officer shall require that such vehicle be driven to the
nearest available scale that has been tested and approved by the Illinois
department of agriculture. Notwithstanding any provisions of the weights and
measures act or the United States department of commerce NIST handbook 44,
either multi-draft weighing or single-draft weighing is an acceptable method of
weighing by law enforcement for determining a violation of this chapter. City
law enforcement vehicles are exempt from the requirements of commercial
weighing established in NIST handbook 44, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load
determines that said weight is unlawful and in violation of this chapter, such
officer shall require that the driver stop his vehicle in a suitable place and
remain standing until such portion of the load is removed as may be necessary
to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted by this chapter. All
material so unloaded shall be cared for by the owner or operator of the vehicle
at his or her sole risk, and such owner or operator shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city, its officers, employees, and affiliates, from any claims or
damages incurred therewith.
   (C)   Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit his vehicle and
load to a weighing process after being directed to do so by an officer, or
removes or causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to completion of
the weighing process, may be charged with a business offense and shall be
subject to a fine in accordance with section 15-112(g) of the Illinois vehicle
code, and as may be amended, in addition to any other fees or fines provided
for in this chapter or under law.
   (D)   The permitting authority may authorize police officers to set up and
establish safety or enforcement checkpoints. Any police officer at such
checkpoint is authorized to require a vehicle to stop and submit to a weighing
without reason to believe the vehicle is overweight and require the driver to
present any city permits being carried. The permitting authority and all police
officers shall comply with applicable federal and Illinois law governing
roadside checkpoints. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
10-16-8: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES TO STREET OR ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Any person driving any vehicle upon any street within the city's
corporate limits and the owner of such vehicle shall be jointly and severally
liable for any damage which said street or appurtenant roadway improvements may
sustain as a result of the operation, driving, or moving of said vehicle
exceeding the maximum weight or dimensions specified in this chapter,
regardless of whether or not a special permit is obtained in accordance with
section
10-16-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   The measure of liability shall be either: 1) the cost of repairing the
damaged street or roadway improvements if the street or roadway improvements
are partially damaged, or 2) the depreciated replacement cost of said street or
roadway improvement if the street or roadway improvements are damaged beyond
repair. The measure of liability shall also include all other expenses incurred
by the authorities in control of said street or roadway improvements in
providing a temporary detour, including, without limitation, a temporary
structure, to serve the needs of traffic during the period of repair or
replacement of the damaged street or roadway improvements. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-
2015)
10-16-9: FEES FOR POLICE ESCORT:
When city of Dixon police department escorts are required for the safety of the
motoring public pursuant to subsection
10-16-5(G) of this chapter, the following fees shall be paid to the permitting
authority by the applicant: Forty dollars ($40.00) per hour per escort vehicle
based upon preestimated time of movement to be agreed upon between the
permitting authority and applicant; provided, however, that a minimum fee of
eighty dollars ($80.00) shall be imposed per escort vehicle. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-
2015)
10-16-10: OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive,
park, or move on or upon or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly
permit to be parked, driven, or moved upon or across any street or highway
under the jurisdiction of the city of Dixon any vehicle or combination of
vehicles exceeding the size limitations set forth in section 15-102 of the
Illinois vehicle code (width), section 15-103 of the Illinois vehicle code
(height), or section 15-107 of the Illinois vehicle code (length).
   (B)   The dimension limitations contained in this section shall not apply to
those vehicles excepted under section 15-101(b) and (c) of the Illinois vehicle
code, or as excepted under the respective sections of the Illinois vehicle code
set forth above governing width, height, and length, respectively, or any
vehicles otherwise not subject to such limitations under law. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-
2015)
10-16-11: PENALTY:
   (A)   Unless a penalty is provided elsewhere in this chapter, any person,
firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or any section of the Illinois vehicle code relating to overweight or
overdimension vehicles as incorporated in this chapter shall be subject to any
and all applicable fines and penalties under the Illinois vehicle code 1 .
   (B)   In the absence of a penalty provision set forth in this chapter or a
provision of the Illinois vehicle code governing penalties for such violation,
any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each separate incident
during which a violation occurs.
   (C)   In addition to seeking applicable fines, as herein provided, the city
may authorize its attorney or his/her designee to institute any proper action
in the name of the city of Dixon to enjoin any continuing violations of any
provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2957, 1-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 17
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Operation Of Nonhighway Vehicles
10-17-2: Definitions
10-17-3: Regulation Of Non-Highway Vehicles
10-17-4: Insurance Requirements
10-17-5: Seat Belts Required
10-17-6: Permit Required
10-17-7: Violations
10-17-1: OPERATION OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES:
The use of specified nonhighway vehicles on the streets, roadways and alleys of
the City shall be permissible subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Nonhighway vehicles may not be used on any toll road, interstate highway,
controlled access highway or other highway or road under the jurisdiction of
the State, except permitted crossing as hereafter set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 3009, 4-18-2016)
10-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth in this section:
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any recreational off highway vehicle not specifically
designed to be used on a public highway. For purposes of this chapter,
nonhighway vehicles shall not include all-terrain vehicles, golf carts,
neighborhood vehicles, off highway vehicles and low speed vehicles, all as
defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device designed to
travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width, having
a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, traveling
on four (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a nonstraddle seat and a
steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawn mowers.
(Ord. 3009, 4-18-2016)
10-17-3: REGULATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   (A)   Non-highway vehicles shall be permitted to operate only between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. each day.
(Ord. 3089, 4-2-2018)
   (B)   All non-highway vehicles shall be operated only on streets where the
posted speed limit is thirty five (35) miles per hour or less. The foregoing
provision shall not prohibit a non-highway vehicle from crossing a road or
street at an intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit of
more than thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord. 3087, 3-19-2018)
   (C)   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street,
highway, or roadway unless he or she: 1) is eighteen (18) years of age or
older; and 2) has a valid driver's license issued in his or her name by the
Illinois Secretary of State or such other applicable foreign jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3089, 4-2-2018)
   (D)   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct crossing
upon or across any tollroad, interstate highway, or controlled access highway.
A person may make a direct crossing of any other highway under the jurisdiction
of the State at an intersection of the highway with another public street,
road, or highway.
   (E)   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview
mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving
emblem (as required of other vehicles in section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a tail
lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from
the rear, brake lights, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a non-
highway vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by
section 12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (F)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a non-highway
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to sections 11-500
through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and all other applicable laws.
   (G)   The operation of a non-highway vehicle upon any street, roadway or
alley is subject to the provisions of chapter 11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
concerning the rules of the road and all applicable City ordinances, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on any City sidewalks or
other surfaces other than City streets. (Ord. 3087, 3-19-2018)
10-17-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a street, highway, or roadway
of the City shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under
article VI of chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 3009, 4-18-2016)
10-17-5: SEAT BELTS REQUIRED:
During the operation of a nonhighway vehicle, the operator and all passengers
shall wear a seat belt. (Ord. 3009, 4-18-2016)
10-17-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the City's streets,
roadways or alleys without first obtaining an annual permit from the City as
provided herein. An annual permit shall be valid, unless suspended or revoked,
from April 1 of the year of issuance until March 31 of the following year. The
cost of the annual permit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
year and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent year, with no prorations or
refunds. Every non-highway vehicle shall be required to have a permit and such
permit shall not be transferable. (Ord. 3089, 4-2-2018)
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
City and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name of insurance carrier and policy number and/or a photocopy of
applicable liability insurance coverage card issued specifically for the
nonhighway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of the nonhighway
vehicle;
      4.   A certification from the applicant that the nonhighway vehicle
satisfies the requirements of this chapter and the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
      5.   Such other information as the City may require, including a release
and waiver of liability signed by applicant releasing the City and its
employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the City harmless, including the
costs of defense, from any and all claims, penalties, costs, judgments,
settlements or causes of action resulting or arising from the operation of
applicant's nonhighway vehicle on City streets. (Ord. 3009, 4-18-2016)
   (C)   The City shall issue each permitted non-highway vehicle a numbered
license plate which shall be affixed to the rear of such non-highway vehicle. A
numbered license plate issued by the Dixon Park District may be substituted for
the City-issued license plate; provided, that the applicant shall disclose the
license plate number to the City at the time the annual permit is obtained.
Every non-highway vehicle shall be required to have a license plate and such
license plate shall not be transferable. The annual permit issued by the City
shall be affixed to the license plate and visible at all times during the
operation of the non-highway vehicle. There shall be a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for any replacement plates or permits. (Ord. 3089, 4-2-2018)
10-17-7: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The City may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
there is a finding that the permittee cannot safely operate a nonhighway
vehicle on City streets.
   (B)   Additionally, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable by payment of a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and the City's
enforcement costs incurred, including its attorney fees, for each offense. Any
second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the City permit
for a period of not less than one nor more than three (3) years. To the extent
that any violation of this chapter may also constitute a violation of a
criminal statute of the State of Illinois, the violator shall also be subject
to criminal prosecution and all other penalties as permitted by law. (Ord.
3009, 4-18-2016)
APPENDIX A
ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Description
Ord. Description
No.
3    A part of Lot No. 1 in Block 5 in River Park Addition.
4    Lots 73, 74, 107, 108, 109 and that part of Lot 113 lying East of present City
     Limits, all in Assembly Park Subdivision.
18   Part of Park Manor Addition and part of Fargo Addition.
21   Part of Lot No. 26 in Muller's Survey of Lands in Township No. 22, North, Range
     9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
33   Lot No. 22 of Assembly Park Subdivision.
38   Lot No. 33 and adjacent territory, of Assembly Park Subdivision.
44   Lots 22 and 23, and adjacent territory, of Assembly Park Subdivision.
46   Worsley's Subdivision.
49   Lot No. 9 and adjacent territory, in Prescotts Third Subdivision in Shore Acres.
53   Lot No. 115 and part of Lot No. 114 in Assembly Park Subdivision.
55   Lots 25, 26, 29, 30 and adjacent territory, of Assembly Park Subdivision.
71   Lots 75, 104, 105, 106 and part of Eustace Drive in Assembly Park Subdivision.
     A part of Assembly Park Subdivision according to the Plat thereof recorded in
73   the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Lee County, Illinois in Book A of Plats,
     Page 141/2, and a part of Lot No. 31 of Moller's Survey.
77   A part of Lot No. 1, in Prescotts Third Subdivision in Shore Acres.
     The Northerly 49.5 feet of the Westerly 200 feet of Lot No. 10; the Westerly 200
79   feet of Lot No. 11, and the Southerly 1/2 of the Westerly 200 feet of Lot No. 12
     in Prescott's Third Subdivision in Shore Acres.
82   Lot No. 98 in Fargo Addition to the City of Dixon.
85   Part of the N. 1/2 of the N. 1/2 of Section 33, T. 22 N., R.9 E. of the 4th P.M.
86   Lots 7 and 8 and part of Eustace Drive in Assembly Park Subdivision.
90   Lots 37 and 36 and adjacent territory in Assembly Park Subdivision.
93   Part of Prescott's Third Subdivision in Shore Acres.
94   That part of Land in the N. 1/2 of Section 33, Township 22 North Range 9 E. of
     the 4th P.M.
95   The territory wholly bounded by the City of Dixon and Rock River and contains
     less than 60 acres.
109  Part of the West 1/2 of the (SE 1/4) of Section 4 in Township 21 North, Range 9,
     East of the 4th P.M.
142  Part of Lot No. 12 and all of Lot No. 13 of Prescott's Third Subdivision in
     Shore Acres.
151  The Swissville Sanitary District.
152  Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 in Elmer Nettz Subdivision.
154  Lots 15 and 16 in the Park Manor Addition and part of Lot No. 11 in Park Manor
     Addition.
162  Lot No. 83, Fargo's Addition.
164  A part of Park Manor Addition.
180  Certain property along the Franklin Grove Road.
181  Dieterle's Second Subdivision.
186  The South Centrall School Site.
190  Tilton Park Subdivision.
195  Chicago Avenue Road.
211  Lots 14, 15, 16, 17, in Elmer Nettz Subdivision.
217  Woessner's First Subdivision.
224  Lots 84, 85, 88, 89, 92, 94, 95, 96, 97, 100 and 101 in Fargo Addition.
233  Lots 76, 77, 80, 81, 86, 87, 90, 91 in Fargo Addition.
235  Hughes and Reilly Subdivision.
240  Parts of Division Street and Fargo Avenue.
256  Lot No. 18 of Elmer Nettz Subdivision.
257  Westerly 75 feet of the easterly 86 feet of uniform width of Tract 47 of
     Loveland Place Tracts.
     Part of the (NW1/4) of Section 32, Part of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4 ) of
267  Section 29, Part of the (SE1/4) of Section 30 and Part of the (NE1/4) of Section
     31, all in Township 22, North, Range 9, East of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
     Lee County, Illinois.
270  The West 60 feet of the East 146 feet of Tract No. 47 in the subdivision known
     as Loveland Place Tracts.
     That part lying east of the center line of the Public Highway known as Hazelwood
274  Road of Lot No. 25 of Moller's Survey of lands in Township 22, North, Range 9,
     East of the 4th Principal Meridian in Lee County, Illinois.
277  That part of Lot No. 30 of Moller's Survey of Lands in Township 22, North, Range
     9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
282  All that part of Peoria Avenue lying between the west line of Section 4,
     Township 21, North, Range 9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
299  All that part of Oakwood Cemetery property in the NW 1/4 of Section 4, Township
     21, North, Range 9, East of the 4th Principal
301  A part of Lot No. 11 of Moller's Survey in Section 29, Township 22, North, Range
     9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
302  All of Lot No. 17 of Assessor's Plat No. 2, in the (NW 1/4) of Section 32,
     Township 22, North, Range 9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
     Lots 23, 24, 25, 26 in the Elmer Nettz Subdivision of a part of the West 1/2 of
311  the (SE 1/4) of Section 4, Township 21, North, Range 9, East of the 4th
     Principal Meridian.
316  A part of Lots 19 and 20 at Moller's Survey of Section 29, Township 22, North,
     Range 9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
     Part of the (SW1/4) of Section 29, Township 22, North, Range 9, East of the 4th
329  Principal Meridian, commencing at the point of intersection of the East Line of
     the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of the (SW 1/4) of said section 29, and the
     Northerly R.O.W. Line of S.B.I. Route 26.
342  Lots 18 and 27, of Moller's Survey as platted in Deed Book "H" page 344 in the
     office of the County Recorder.
343  All of Lot 15, and part of Lots 16, 21, 22 in Assessor's Plat No. 2, Neighbor's
     Series.
393  Commencing at the SW Corner of the East 5 Acres of the (SE1/4) of the (NW1/4) of
     Section 4, Township 21, North, Range 9, East of the 4th Principal Meridian.
     A part of the West Half (W1/2) of the West Half (W1/2) of the Southwest Quarter
402  (SW1/4) of Section Number twenty-nine (29), in Township Number twenty-two (22)
     North, Range Number nine (9) East.
403  Lot Nineteen (109) of Elmer Nettz Subdivision to the City of Dixon in the County
     of Lee, State of Illinois.
     All of the South Half (S1/2) of Lot Number Twenty (20) of Moller's Survey of
     Lands in Section Twenty Nine (29), Township Twenty- Two North (22), Range Nine
419  (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian in Lee County, Illinois, excepting
     therefrom the West 256' of the South 110' and excepting all that part heretofore
     subdivided and included in the Lowell Wilson Subdivision Number One in the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Beginning at a point at the Northeast Corner of Lot 65 in Fargo Addition; thence
     Southerly a distance of three hundred (300) feet to the Southeast Corner of Lot
     73 in Fargo Addition; thence Easterly a distance of Sixty (60) feet to the
     Southwest Corner of Lot 64 in Fargo Addition; thence Northerly a distance of
429  Three Hundred (300) feet to the Northwest Corner of Lot 56 in Fargo Addition;
     thence Westerly a distance of Sixty (60) feet to the point of beginning; all
     located in the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Southwest Quarter (SW1/4), Section
     4, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian in County of
     Lee, State of Illinois.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9
     East of the 4th Principal Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois,
     described as follows: Commencing at the Southeast Corner of the said Northeast
     Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 31; thence northerly on the east line of said Section
     31, 524.21 feet; thence Westerly at an angle of 88° 42' measured clockwise from
     the said east line of Section 31, 200.91 feet to a point on the west line of
     Lowell Heights in the said City of Dixon 2.5 feet north of the Northwest corner
     of Lot Seven (7) of said Lowell Heights being the point of beginning of the
     tract of land being described; thence extending westerly on a projection
     westerly of the last described course, 180 feet; thence northerly at an angle of
439  88° 13'30" measured counterclockwise from the last described course, 10.0 feet;
     thence southwesterly at an angle of 76° 43' measured clockwise from the last
     described course, 125.20 feet; thence southerly at an angle of 108° 29' 30"
     measured clockwise from the last described course, 185.0 feet; thence
     southwesterly at an angle of 115° 52'30" measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, 20.0 feet; thence southeasterly at an angle of 56° 25'
     measured clockwise from the last described course, 153.01 feet thence
     southeasterly at an angle of 172° 20' measured clockwise from the last described
     course, 185.90 feet to the westerly line of said Lowell Heights; thence
     northerly along the said westerly line of Lowell Heights, 396.22 feet to the
     said point of beginning.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9
     East of the 4th Principal Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois,
     described as follows: Beginning at a point on the south line of the said
     Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section 31, 290.5 feet west of the southeast
     corner of the said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4), said point also being the
     Southwest corner of Lot One (1) in Lowell Heights in the City of Dixon; thence
     Westerly on the said South line of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 31,
     also being the North line of Loveland Place Tracts, 467.06 feet; thence
     Northerly perpendicular to the last described course, 120 feet; thence Westerly
     perpendicular to the last described course, 24.4 feet; thence Northerly
440  perpendicular to the last described course 180 feet; thence Easterly
     perpendicular to the last described course, 195 feet; thence Northeasterly at an
     angle of 161° 08'30" measured clockwise from the last described course, 57.22
     feet to the most Westerly corner of Lot Five (5) in Longs Jefferson Park
     Subdivision No. 1 in the City of Dixon; thence Southeasterly at an angle of 123°
     35' measured counterclockwise from the fast described course and along the
     Southwesterly line of said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1, 153.01 feet;
     thence extending Southeasterly along the said Southwesterly line of Long's
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1 at an angle of 172° 20' measured clockwise from
     the last described course 185.90 feet to the Southeast corner of Lot Four (4) in
     said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1, also being a point on the Westerly
     line of said Lowell Heights, 138.65 feet to the said point of beginning.
     A part of the North Half (N1/2) of Lot Twenty (20) of the Subdivision known as
     Moller's Survey located in the South Half (S1/2) of Section twenty nine (29),
     Township Twenty two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and more fully described as follows:
     Beginning at a point on the south line of the North half (N 1/2) of said Lot 20,
     said point being 33 feet easterly from the Southwest Corner of said North Half
451  (N 1/2); thence easterly on said south line a distance of 526.5 feet; thence
     northerly parallel to the west line of said Lot 20 a distance of 60 feet; thence
     westerly parallel to said south line a distance of 105.5 feet; thence northerly
     parallel to said west line a distance of 3.68 feet; thence westerly parallel to
     the north line of said Lot 20 a distance of 421.0 feet; thence southerly
     parallel to the west line of said Lot 20 a distance of 63.37 feet to the point
     of beginning, all being situate in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Thirty one (31), Township
     Twenty two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee
     County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at a point on the East line
     of said Section 31, which is 472.0 feet south of the Northeast Corner thereof;
458  thence Westerly at an angle of 88° 55' measured clockwise from the said East
     line of Section 31, 351.6 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the said East
     line of Section 31, 85 feet; thence Easterly at an angle of 88° 55' measured
     clockwise from the last described course 351.6 feet to the said East line of
     Section 31; thence Northerly on the said East line 85 feet to the place of
     beginning.
     Part of Lots 67, 68, 69 and 70 in Fargo Addition to the City of Dixon, Illinois,
     more particularly described as follows: Beginning at the Northeast Corner of Lot
     68 in Fargo Addition to the City of Dixon, Illinois, which is the West line of
     Fargo Avenue in said City; thence West on the North line of said Lots 68 and 67,
462  152'; thence South parallel with the East line of said Lots 67 and 70, 70';
     thence East parallel with the North line of said Lots 70 and 69, 152'; thence to
     the West line of said Fargo Avenue, being the East line of said Lot 68; thence
     North on the said East line of said Lot 68, a distance of 70' to the place of
     beginning. (Ord. 462, 10-20- 1964)
     A part of Lot Number Twenty (20) of the Subdivision known as Moller's Survey of
     Lands in the South Half (S 1/2) of Section Twenty-nine (29), in Township Twenty-
     two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the 4th P.M., in the County of Lee and
     State of Illinois, bounded and described as follows viz: beginning at a point on
     the West line of said Lot Number Twenty (20) which is 265 feet South of the
     Northwest corner of said Lot, and running thence at right angles East, parallel
     with the North line of said Lot, a distance of 198 1/2 feet for a point of
     commencement of the premises herein and hereby conveyed, and from said point of
     commencement running thence East parallel with the North line of said Lot a
463  distance of 135 1/2 feet, and running thence at right angles North parallel with
     the West line of said Lot a distance of 121 feet; thence at right angles West
     parallel with the North line of said Lot a distance of 70 feet; thence at right
     angles South parallel with the West line of said Lot, a distance of 21 feet;
     thence at right angles Westerly, parallel with the North line of said Lot, a
     distance of 65 1/2 feet; thence at right angles South parallel with the West
     line of said Lot, a distance of 100 feet to the point of beginning, together
     with an easement to the grantee, its heirs, executors, administrators and
     assigns for the purpose of ingress and egress of the roadway of 65 feet adjacent
     to said premises and extending across said Lot 20 in an Easterly and Westerly
     direction, situated in Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of Lot Twenty (20) in Moller's survey of Lands described as follows:
     commencing at the Southwest corner of said Lot 20 and running thence East 256
464  feet along said South line of said Lot; thence North parallel to the West line
     of said Lot, 110 feet; thence West parallel with the South line of said Lot a
     distance of 256 feet, and thence South along the West line of said Lot, 110 feet
     to the place of beginning, situated in Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of the North Half (N 1/2) of Lot Number Twenty (20) of Moller's Survey
     and Subdivision of Lands in Township Number Twenty-two (22) North, Range Nine
     (9) East of the 4th P.M., in the County of Lee and State of Illinois described
     as follows; reference being had to the Plat of said Moller's Survey recorded in
     the Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois, in Book "H" of Deeds, on page
     344, bounded and described as follows: Beginning at a point on the West line of
465  said Lot Number Twenty (20) which is ten (10) rods South of the Northwest corner
     of said Lot Number Twenty (20) and from said point running thence Easterly
     parallel with the North line of said Lot, a distance of one hundred ninety-eight
     and one-half (198 1/2) feet; thence South parallel with the West line of said
     Lot, a distance of one hundred (100) feet; thence West parallel with the North
     line of said Lot a distance of one hundred ninety-eight and one-half (198 1/2)
     feet, and thence North parallel with the West line of said Lot a distance of one
     hundred (100) feet to the place of beginning, situated in Lee County, Illinois.
     Lots Thirty-four (34), Forty-four (44), Forty-five (45) and Forty-six (46) in
     Woessner's Second Subdivision in the West Half (W 1/2) of the Southeast Quarter
     (SE 1/4) of Section Four (4), Township Twenty-one (21) North, Range (9), East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof filed in the office
473  of the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois, on June 19, 1963 and recorded in Book
     "F" of Plats on pages 78-79, said premises being situated in the County of Lee
     and State of Illinois; ALSO all of Beech Drive in said Woessner's Second
     Subdivision lying west of the east line of said Lot Forty-six (46) extended
     southerly to the northerly line of Lot Thirty-two (32) in said subdivision, all
     of said premises being situated in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     Lots Thirty (30) and Thirty-one (31) in Woessner's Second Subdivision in the
     West Half (W 1/2) of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Four (4),
     Township Twenty-one (21), North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, according to the plat thereof filed in the office of the Recorder of
474  Lee County, Illinois, on June 19,1963 and recorded in Book "F" of Plats on pages
     78-79, said premises being situated in the County of Lee and State of Illinois,
     ALSO all of Tee Street in said Woessner's Second Subdivision, being all of said
     street in said Woessner's Second Subdivision lying south of the northerly line
     of said Lot (30) extended easterly to the northerly line of said Lot (31), all
     of said premises being situated in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     Part of Lot 20 of Mollers Survey of Lands in Section 29, Township 22 North,
     Range 9 East of the 4th Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and
     described as follows: Beginning at the Northwest Corner of Lowell Wilson
     Subdivision No. 1 in the City of Dixon; thence westerly on the north line of
     said Lot 20, a distance of 200 feet; thence southerly parallel with the west
485  line of said Lowell Wilson Subdivision No. 1, a distance of 144 feet; thence
     easterly parallel with the said north line of Lot 20, a distance of 140 feet;
     thence southerly parallel with the said west line of Lowell Wilson Subdivision
     No. 1 a distance of 121 feet to the North line of Marclare Street; thence
     easterly on the said north line of Marclare Street, a distance of 60 feet to the
     said west line of Lowell Wilson Subdivision No. 1; thence northerly on the said
     west line a distance of 265 feet to the said place of beginning.
     All of Lots Six (6), Seven (7), Eleven (11), Twelve (12), and the West 22 feet
500  of Lot Ten (10), and the East 22 feet of Lot Nine (9), all in Hughes and Reilly
     Subdivision, Dixon Township, Lee County, Illinois.
     The westerly 200 feet of Lot 10 except the northerly 49.5 feet thereof; in
     Prescott's Third Subdivision in Shore Acres in the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of
     the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Three (33) in Township Twenty-
501  Two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, reference
     being had to the plat of said Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois, in Book
     "B" of Plats, page 19, said premises being situated in the County of Lee and
     State of Illinois.
     A part of Lot 20 of Moller's Survey of Lands in Section 29, Township 22 North,
     Range 9 East of the 4th Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and
     described as follows: Beginning at a point on the North Line of Marclare Street,
     60 feet west of the west line of Lowell Wilson Sub. No. 1 in the City of Dixon;
502  thence continuing West along said North line of Marclare Street 70 feet; thence
     North parallel with the West line of said Wilson Sub. 121 feet; thence East
     parallel with the said North Line of Marclare Street 70 feet; thence South
     parallel with the said West Line of Wilson Sub. 121 feet to the said place of
     beginning.
     Lots 75 and 78 and parts of Elm Place and Ash Court, all in Fargo Addition to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, more particularly described as follows:
     Beginning at the Southwest Corner of Lot 78; thence northerly along the west
     lines of Lots 78 and 75 and the extension thereof to the north line of Ash
503  Court; thence Easterly along the north line of Ash Court to the easterly line of
     Elm Place; thence southerly on the easterly line of Elm Place to the southwest
     corner of Lot 70 of Fargo Addition; thence westerly along the south line of said
     Lot 78 and the extension thereof easterly to the east line of Elm Place, to the
     southwest corner of Lot 78.
512  Lot Sixty-Five (65) in Fargo's Addition to the City of Dixon all being situate
     in the County of Lee and State of Illinois,
     A strip of land 70 feet wide in the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section
     Thirty-One (31), Township Twenty-Two (22) North, and the Northeast Quarter (NE
     1/4) of Section Six (6), Town ship Twenty-One (21) North, Range Nine (9) East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, 35 feet in width on each side of the line
     described as follows: Starting at a point in the East line of Section 31, 1069.2
     feet South from the intersection of said Section line with the centerline of
     Palmyra Road and thence running North on said Section line 6 feet for a place of
     beginning; thence running South 67° 44' West 685 feet; thence running tangent to
     the last course and bearing to the right on a circular curve of 119.5 feet
     radius through an angle of 92° 35' for a distance of 193 feet; thence running
     tangent to said curve North 19° 41' West 229.5 feet; thence running North 30
     degrees 41 minutes West 126 feet; thence North 17° 18' West 254.5 feet; thence
     North 0° 15' East 228 feet; thence North 40° 45' West 417 feet to a point in the
     centerline of Palmyra Road and 237 feet Easterly from a point in the centerline
     of Palmyra Road which is 1299.5 feet Westerly from the intersection of the
     centerline of Palmyra Road and the East line of said Section 31, also the
     irregular strip of land lying between the above described 70 foot strip and Rock
514  River and between the said 70 foot strip and the West line of the Borden
     property which West line is described as follows: Beginning at a point in the
     centerline of Palmyra Road at a point which is 1299.5 feet West of the
     intersection of the East line of said Section 31 and the centerline of Palmyra
     Road, and running thence South 18° 45' East 1428.9 feet to the North bank of
     Rock River, also a triangular tract of land South of and adjacent to Palmyra
     Road and East of and adjacent to the last described 70 foot strip, measuring 75
     feet along Palmyra Road, 75 feet along the said 70 foot strip and connected by a
     curved line of 75 feet radius concave to the Southeast, also, Part of the
     Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section 32, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as
     follows: Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Section 32; thence North 0°
     00' along the West line of said Section 32, 89.12 feet; thence North 67° 44'
     East 501.70 feet; thence North 71° 07' East 201.03 feet; thence South 18° 42'
     East 70.0 feet; thence North 71° 07' East, 647.5 feet; thence North 53° 57' East
     307.8 feet to the Westerly right of way line of the I.C.R.R. Company; thence
     South 11° 53' East to the south line of said Section 32; thence westerly on the
     said south line of Section 32 to the said point of beginning, all of said
     premises being situated in Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of the Southeast Fractional Quarter (SE Fr 1/4) of Section Thirty-one
     (31) in Township Twenty-two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth
     Principal Meridian, in Lee County, Illinois, and a part of the Northeast
     Fractional Quarter (NE Fr 1/4) of Section Six (6) in Township Twenty-one (21)
     North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, in said Lee County,
     bounded and described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at a point in the center of
     the highway known as the Palmyra Road which is Six (6) chains and Fifty-two (52)
521  links Easterly from the intersection of the centerline of the said Palmyra Road
     with the centerline of the highway known as the River Road; from said place of
     commencement running thence South 18 3/4 degrees East Twenty-one (21) chains and
     Sixty-five (65) links to Rock River; thence westerly along Rock River to the
     Easterly line of the highway known as Lincoln Avenue; thence in a Northerly
     direction along the Easterly boundary line of said Lincoln Avenue to the center
     of the highway known as the Palmyra Road and thence Easterly along the center of
     said highway to the place of beginning.
     A tract of land known as First Addition to Orchard Subdivision, being a part of
525  Lots Four (4) and Eleven (11) of Moller's Survey in Section 29, Township 22
     North, Range 9 East of the 4th P.M., in Lee County, Illinois, described as
     follows:
     Beginning at the Northwest corner of Lot 1, Block 1, Orchard Subdivision in the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; thence Northerly on the West line of said
     Lots 11 and 4,250.0 feet; thence Easterly parallel with the South line of said
     Lot 11, 185.23 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the East line of said Lot 4,
     23.0 feet; thence Easterly parallel with the said South line of Lot 11, 472.0
     feet to the said East line of Lot 4; thence Southerly on the East line of said
     Lots 4 and 11, 264.0 feet to the Northeast corner of said Orchard Subdivision;
     thence Easterly on the North line of said Orchard Subdivision, 472.0 feet to the
     Northwest corner of Lot 1, Block 3 in said Orchard Subdivision; thence Northerly
     on the East line of Bonnie Avenue in said Orchard Subdivision, 37.0 feet; thence
     Westerly on the Northerly line of said Orchard Subdivision, 185.86 feet to the
     said point of beginning.
     The South Five (5) Acres of Lot Five (5) and the South Five (5) Acres of Lot Six
532  (6) of Moller's Survey of Lands in Township Twenty-Two (22) North, Range Nine
     (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian in Lee County, Illinois.
     All of Lots Forty-two (42), Forty-three (43), Forty-Seven (47), Forty-eight
     (48), Eighty-five (85), Eighty-six (86), Eighty-seven (87) and Eighty-eight (88)
     in Martin's Subdivision or part of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section
     Thirty-one (31), Township Twenty-Two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the
534  Fourth Principal Meridian, and part of the Northeast Fractional Quarter (NE Frl.
     1/4) of Section Six (6), Township Twenty-one (21) North, Range Nine (9) East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, all in Lee County, Illinois; ALSO, that part of
     Willett Avenue lying between said Lots 47, 48, 85 and 86; ALSO that part of the
     alley lying between said Lots 42, 43, 47 and 48, ALSO part of North Lincoln
     Avenue lying Easterly of said Lots 42, 43.
574  TRACT #1:
     All of Lot 2, Assessor's Plat #6, adjacent to Maple Park Addition, as shown on
     Book C of Plats on Page 46. Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Lot 2;
     thence Northeasterly on the Northerly line 40.4 feet; thence Northwesterly
     parallel with the westerLy line of Lot 2 as extended Northwesterly 30 feet;
     thence Northeasterly perpendicular to the last described course 45.3 feet;
     thence Southeasterly perpendicular to the last described course 18.1 feet to the
     said Northerly line of Lot 2; thence Northeasterly on the Northerly line to the
     Northeast corner; thence Southeasterly on the Easterly line to the Southeast
     corner; thence Southwesterly on the South line to the Southwest corner; thence
     Northwesterly on the Westerly line of Lot 2, 314.2 feet to point of beginning.
     TRACT #2: All except Southerly 272.7 feet of Lot 3, Assessor's Plat 6, adjacent
     to Maple Park Addition, located in Section 6, Township 21 North, Range 9, East
     of the Fourth P.M., all of Block 6 in River Park Addition to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois, except the following: The West 150 feet of the North 435.6
     feet of said Block 6 in River Park Addition to Dixon; and also except that part
     of said Block 6 in River Park Addition to Dixon described as follows: Commencing
     at the Southwest corner of said Block 6, and running thence Northeasterly along
     the South line of said Block 6, 283 feet; thence Northerly along the East line
     of said Block, 17 feet; thence westerly 328.7 feet to 3/4 inch steel pin on the
     West side of said Block, 91.05 feet North from the Southwest corner of said
     Block, 91.05 feet to the point of beginning.
     TRACT #3:
     Part of Block 6, River Park Addition to the City of Dixon, commencing at a point
     on the Northerly line of said Block 6 at a distance of 100 feet East from the
     Northwest corner of said Block; thence running easterly on the North line of
     said Block 50 feet; thence at right angles Southerly 150 feet; thence at right
     angles westerly and parallel with the North line of said Block, 50 feet; thence
     at right angles Northerly and parallel with the West line of said Block, 150
     feet to the place of beginning.
     All that part of West Third Street lying between a line drawn northerly and
590  southerly across said West Third Street 100 feet easterly of and parallel with
     the easterly line of Eells Avenue and the present westerly city limits line of
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3 situate in the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/
597  4) of Section Thirty-one (31), Township Twenty-two (22) North, Range Nine (9)
     East of the 4th P.M., in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     Lot #79 of Fargo Addition to the City of Dixon, Illinois, also all that part of
603, Elm Place lying easterly of and adjacent to the east line of said Lot #79, be
605  and the same is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon and from henceforth on shall
     be considered as a part of the City of Dixon and so noted on the official map of
     the said City of Dixon.
     Part of the South Half of Section 28, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the 4th
     Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as follows:
     Beginning at the Southeast corner of Tilton Park Subdivision in the said City of
     Dixon, also being a point on the South line of said Section 28; thence northerly
     on the east line of said Tilton Park Subdivision 154.57 feet; thence
     Northeasterly on the said east line of Tilton Park Subdivision at an angle of
608  151° 53'42" measured counterclockwise from the last described course, 274.58
     feet; thence southeasterly perpendicular to the last described course, 120.0
     feet; thence easterly parallel with the south line of said Section 28, 130.76
     feet; thence southerly perpendicular to the last described course, 135.0 feet;
     thence westerly parallel with the said south line of Section 28, 70.0 feet;
     thence southerly perpendicular to the last described course, 205.0 feet to the
     said south line of Section 28; thence westerly on the South line of Section 28,
     296.73 feet to the said point of beginning.
610  Dixon-Fargo Addition
     Lot 73 except the North 5 feet and except a part of Lot 73 as follows: beginning
     at a point on the South line of the North 5 feet of Lot 73, 23.6 feet East of
     the West line of Lot 73, then Southly parallel with the West line of Lot 73, 7.5
     feet then Easterly parallel with the South line of the North 5 feet of Lot 73,
     30 feet then Northeasterly to a point on the East line of Lot 73, 5 feet South
     of the Northeast corner then Westly on the South line of the North 5 feet of Lot
     73, 108.4 feet to the point of beginning.
611  Lot #4 of Moller's Survey in Section 29, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     4th P.M., in Lee County Illinois.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE-1/4) of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9
     East of the Fourth Principal Meridian in Lee County, Illinois, described as
     follows: beginning at the Northwest Corner of Lot 12 in Long's Jefferson Park
     Subdivision No. 3 in the City of Dixon, said corner being located 100 feet
     easterly of and normally distant from the West line of the East Half (E 1/2) of
     the said Northeast Quarter (NE-1/4) of Section 31; thence easterly on the North
     line of said Lot 12 and an extension thereof, 188.0 feet to the Northwest corner
     of Lot 13 in said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3; thence southeasterly
     on the northeasterly line of said Lot 13, 157.08 feet to the most easterly
     corner of said Lot 13; thence southwesterly on the easterly line of said Lot 13,
     18.0 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 13; thence southerly on the
     easterly line of Lots 14 and 15 in said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3,
     125.0 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 15; thence southeasterly on the
     northeasterly line of Lots 16 and 17 in Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3,
     40.0 feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot 17; thence southeasterly on the
     northerly line of Lot 18 in said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3, 35.0
     feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot 18; thence easterly on the North line
     of Lot 19 in said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 3, 60.0 feet to the
629  Northeast corner of said Lot 19 also being the Northwest corner of Lot 8 in
     Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 2 in the said City of Dixon; thence
     extending easterly on the North line of Lots 8, 9 and 10 in said Long's
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 2, 195.0 feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot
     10; thence; northeasterly on the northerly line of Lots 11 and 12 in said Long's
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 2, 57.22 feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot
     12, also being the most westerly corner of Lot 5 in Long's Jefferson Park
     Subdivision No. 1 in the said City of Dixon; thence extending northeasterly on
     the Northwesterly line of said Lot 5, 20.0 feet to the most northerly corner of
     said Lot 5; thence northerly on the West line of Lots 6, 7 and 8 in said Long's
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1, 185.0 feet to the Northwest corner of said Lot
     8; thence northwesterly at an angle of 99° 56' measured clockwise from the last
     described course, 47.55 feet; thence westerly at an angle of 163° 16' measured
     clockwise from the last described course, 65.0 feet; thence northerly
     perpendicular to the last described course, 300.0 feet; thence westerly
     perpendicular to the last described course, 596.42 feet to a point 100 feet
     easterly of and normally distant from the said West line of the East Half (E-1/
     2) of the Northeast Quarter (NE-1/4); thence southerly parallel with the said
     West line 252.33 feet to the said point of beginning;
     All that part of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Right of Way as presently
     established over and across the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
634  Section 8, the North Half of Section 9, the North Half of Section 10, the South
     half of Section 3, and the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, all in Township 22
     North, Range 9 East of the 4th Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of Lot Four (4) of Moller's Survey in Section 29, Township 22 North,
     Range 9 East of the 4th P.M., Lee County, Illinois, described as follows:
     Beginning at the North West Corner of Lot 13, Block 6, Second Addition to
     Orchard Subdivision in the said City of Dixon, said point also being on the West
     line of said Lot 4 of Mollers Survey; thence Northerly on the said West line of
     Lot 4, 259.35 feet to the North West Corner thereof; thence Easterly on the
636  North line of said Lot 4, 656.17 feet to the North East Corner thereof; thence
     South on the East line of said Lot 4, 256.95 feet to the North East Corner of
     said Second Addition to Orchard Subdivision; thence Westerly on the North line
     of said Second Addition 522.0 feet to a point on the West line of Bonnie Avenue
     in said Second Addition; thence South on the West line of Bonnie Avenue, 1.0
     feet, to the North East Corner of said Lot 13, Block 6; thence West on the North
     line of said Lot 13, 134.63 feet to the said point of beginning,
     Part of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) and part of the South west Quarter (SW 1/
     4) of Section 3, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as follows: Beginning at
     the Northeast corner of the said Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section 3; thence
     Southerly on the East line of said Section 3 a distance of 2504.0 feet to the
     Northerly Right of Way line of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company;
     thence Westerly on the said Northerly Right of Way line a distance of 4651.30
     feet to a point 2000 feet West of the East line of the said Southwest Quarter
     (SW 1/4) of Section 3; thence Northerly parallel with the said East line of the
     Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a distance of 848.8 feet; thence Northeasterly at an
     angle of 99° 52' measured counter-clockwise from the last described course a
     distance of 2029.8 feet to the said East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4)
637  thence Northerly on the said East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a
     distance of 546.6 feet; thence Westerly perpendicular to the last described
     course a distance of 396.0 feet; thence Northerly parallel with the said East
     line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) a distance of 528.0 feet; thence Easterly
     perpendicular to the last described course a distance of 396.0 feet to the said
     East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4); thence extending Easterly parallel
     with the North line of the said Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) distance of 161.04
     feet; thence Northerly parallel with the West line of the said Southeast Quarter
     (SE 1/4) a distance of 330.0 feet to the North line of the said Southeast
     Quarter (SE 1/4); thence Easterly on the said North line of the South east
     Quarter (SE 1/4) a distance of 2403.06 feet to the point of beginning. Also all
     that part of the Right of Way of S.B.I. Route 6 lying Northerly of and adjacent
     to the last described course of the property described above.
     Lots thirty two (32), thirty three (33), thirty five (35), thirty six (36),
     thirty seven (37), thirty eight (38), thirty nine (39), forty seven (47), forty
     eight (48) and fort nine (49) in Woessner's Second Subdivision in the West Half
     (W 1/2) of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Four (4) , Township twenty
     one (21) North, Range to the plat thereof filed in the office of the Recorder of
     Lee County, ,Illinois, on June 19, 1963 and recorded in Book "F" of Plats on
652  pages 78-79, said premises being situated in the County of Lee and State of
     Illinois; ALSO all of Beech Drive in said Woessner's Second Subdivision lying
     between the east line of Lot forty six (46), in said Woessner's Second
     Subdivision extended southerly to the northerly line of Lot thirty two (32) in
     said Subdivision and the east line of Lot thirty nine (39) in said Subdivision
     extended northerly to the northerly boundary line of said Subdivision, all of
     said premises being situated in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     Part of Lot 19 of Mollers Survey in Section 29, Township 22 North, Range 9 East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at the Northwest corner of Lot 5 in Lowell Wilson Subdivision No. 1 in
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; thence Southerly on the West line of
     Lots 5, 6 and 7 in said Lowell Wilson Subdivision No. 1, 180.0 feet to the
     Northeast corner of Lot 9 in said Subdivision; thence Westerly on the North line
660  of Lots 9, 10 and 11 in said Subdivision, 325.0 feet to the Northwest corner of
     said Lot 11, also being the Southeast corner of Lot 14 in said Subdivision;
     thence Northerly on the East line of Lots 14 and 15 in said Subdivision, 180.0
     feet to the Northeast Corner of said Lot 15, also being a point on the North
     line of said Lot 19 in Mollers Survey; thence Easterly on the said North line of
     Lot 19, also being the South line of Brinton Highlands in the said City of
     Dixon, 325.0 feet to the said point of beginning.
     Commencing at the Northwest Corner of said Lot 20 and running East, along the
     North line of said Lot, 16 rods; thence South 10 rods; thence West Parallel with
664  the North Line of said Lot 20, a distance of 16 rods to the West Line of said
     Lot 20; and thence North to the place of beginning, all being situate in Lee
     County, Illinois. Also that portion of Brinton Avenue lying westerly of and
     immediately adjacent to the westerly line of the above described property.
707  The Westerly 100 feet of the Southerly 100 feet of Tract No. 5;
     All of Tracts 6, 7, 8 and 9;
     The Easterly half of the northerly 157 feet and the North 75 feet of the West
     Half of Tract No. 48;
     The Easterly 19 feet of Tract No. 10;
     The Northerly 100 feet of the Easterly 150 feet of Lot 40 and the Westerly 180
     feet of said Tract No. 40;
     Tract No. 39 excepting therefrom a tract of land 108 feet in equal width off the
     West side thereof;
     and all in Loveland Place Tracts, according to the recorded plat thereof
     recorded in the Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois in Book "C" of Plats,
     page 4, situated in the County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     The South Half of Lot Sixty-six (66) and all of Lot Sixty-seven (67) of Fargo's
717  Addition to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, be and the same is hereby
     annexed to the said City of Dixon, and from henceforth on shall be a part of the
     said City of Dixon.
     The South Half (S 1/2) of Lot Sixty-six (66), all of Lot Sixty seven (67) and
720  the North Fifteen (15) feet of Lot Seventy (70) of Fargo's Addition to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Commencing at the Northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast
     Quarter of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9, East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian; thence Westerly, along the North line of said Section 31, 348.40 feet
     to an iron pipe monument found, said point being the true beginning; thence
     South 00° 22' 40" West, an assured bearing, 10.00 feet to an iron pipe monument
     set; thence South 88° 52' 41" West, 36.00 feet to an iron pipe monument set;
     thence South 00° 12' 21" West, 400.00 feet to an iron pipe monument set; thence
     North 88° 52' 41 " East, 34.80 feet to an iron pipe monument set; thence South
     00° 22' 40" West, 246.05 feet to an iron pipe monument found; thence South 88°
     52' 41" West, 860.15 feet to an iron pipe monument found on the East line of the
     West 100 feet of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section
     31; thence North 00° 07' 51" East, along said East line, 655.78 feet to an iron
     pipe monument found on the North line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast
726  Quarter of said Section 31; thence South 88° 50' 30" West, along the North line
     of said Section 31, 367.24 feet to an iron pipe monument found on the West line
     of the East 267.35 feet of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
     Section 30, Township 22 North, Range 9, East of the Fourth Principal Meridian;
     thence North 00° 07' 29" West, along said West line, 543.48 feet to an iron pipe
     monument set; thence North 42° 31' 48" East, 868.18 feet to an iron pipe
     monument set on the Southwesterly right-of-way line of S.B.I. Route 26; thence
     South 47° 28' 12" East, along said right-of-way line, 521.50 feet to an iron
     pipe monument found at a point on curve; thence Southeasterly, along said right-
     of-way line, a curve to left, convex to the Southwest to an iron pipe monument
     set on a chord bearing South 51° 23' 52" East, 467.05 feet from the last
     described point; thence South 20° 54' 50" West, 294.17 feet to an iron pipe
     monument set; thence South 00° 00' 00" East, 240.00 feet to the point of
     beginning, containing 37.537 acres, more or less, all situated in LEE COUNTY,
     ILLINOIS.
     Lots 14, 15, 18, 19, 22, 23, 26, 27, 33, 34 and 35, in the Subdivision of a part
     of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range
     9, East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, known as Hawley Place, according to
     the Plat of said Subdivision recorded in the Recorder's Office of Lee County,
     Illinois, in Book "C" of Plats, page 20. EXCEPTING from the above described
     premises the following: A part of Lots 33, 34 and 35 in Hawley Place Tracts in
733  the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9,
     East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, described as follows: Commencing at the
     Northwest corner of said Lot 35; thence Southerly on the West line of said Lot
     35, 283 feet to the Southwest corner thereof; thence Southeasterly on the
     Southerly line of said Lots 35, 34 and 33, 443.8 feet to the Southeast corner of
     said Lot 33; thence Northeasterly on the Easterly line of said Lot 33, 270 feet;
     and thence Northwesterly through said Lots 33, 34 and 35, 650.6 feet to the
     place of beginning, in Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of the North Half (N1/2) of Section Nine (9) in Township Twenty-one (21),
     North, Range Nine (9), East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, bounded and
     described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at a point on the east boundary line of
     the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of said Section
     Nine (9) at a distance of one chain and 75 links south from the north line of
     said section, said point being on the southern boundary of the railroad right of
     way; thence running south on said east line of said 40 acre tract 10.54 chains
     to a stone; thence west parallel with the north line of said section 41.80
     chains to a point which is 10.50 chains distant from the center of the Peoria
     Road by a direct continuation; thence running north 151/2° west 4.27 chains to a
     point which is on the south line of land conveyed to Hildebrand; thence running
     east upon said south line of the Hildebrand land and parallel with the north
     line of said section 18.05 chains to the southeast corner of the Hildebrand
     land; thence north 5.41 chains to the southerly boundary of the railroad right
741  of way and thence east on said railroad boundary to the place of beginning,
     containing 33.11 acres, more or less; also a strip of land 40 feet in width and
     660 feet in length connecting above described premises with the Peoria Road in
     said section, said strip being bounded as follows: - the west boundary of said
     strip is the east line of the Peoria Road; the east boundary of said strip is
     parallel with the east boundary of said Peoria Road and distant 660 feet
     easterly therefrom; the north boundary of said strip is a line parallel with the
     north line of said section and distant 20 feet north from a direct continuation
     westerly of the south line of the Hildebrand land; the south line of said strip
     is parallel with the North line of said section and distant 40 feet south from
     the above described north line of said strip, it being understood further that
     the center line of said strip is a direct continuation west of the line
     constituting the course above called the south line of the Hildebrand land and
     said strip being a private road belonging to said grantors 40 feet in width and
     660 feet long, and all of said premises being situated in the County of Lee in
     the State of Illinois.
     Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 16, 17, 20, 21, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32, in
     the Subdivision of a part of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section
750  4, Township 21 North, Range 9, East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, known as
     Hawley Place, according to the Plat of said Subdivision recorded in the
     Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois, in Book "C" of Plats, page 20, in Lee
     County, Illinois.
     Part of Lots 33, 34 and 35 in Hawley Place Tracts in the East 1/4 of the SE 1/
     4 of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at the NW
     corner of said Lot 35, then southerly on the west line of said Lot 35, 283 feet
751  to the SW corner thereof; thence southeasterly on the southerly line of said
     Lots 35, 34 and 33, 443.8 feet to the SE corner of said Lot 33; thence
     northeasterly on the easterly line of said Lot 33, 270 feet; thence
     northwesterly through said 33, 34 and 35, 650.6 feet to the said point of
     beginning.
     Part of Lots 5 & 6 of Mollers Survey in the SE 1/4 of Section 29, Township 22
     North, Range 9 East of the 4th Principal Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee County,
     Illinois, described as follows: Beginning at the northwest corner of Brinton
     Highlands in the said City of Dixon, also being a point on the west line of said
     Lot 6 of Mollers Survey in Section 29; thence easterly on the north line of said
     Brinton Highlands 1066.02 feet to the southwest corner of Lot 23 in First
     Addition to Brinton Highlands in the said City of Dixon; thence northerly on the
     west line of said Lot 23 and an extension thereof 160.0 feet to the south line
755  of Lot 22 in said First Addition to Brinton Highlands; thence westerly on the
     said south line 35.0 feet to the southwest corner of said lot 22; thence
     northerly on the west line of said First Addition to Brinton Highlands 110.0
     feet; thence westerly parallel with the said north line of Brinton Highlands
     878.0 feet; thence southerly parallel with the said west line of First Addition
     to Brinton Highlands, 35.0 feet; thence westerly parallel with the said north
     line of Brinton Highlands, 153.17 feet to the said west line of Lot 6 of Mollers
     Survey; thence southerly on the said west line of Lot 6, 235.0 feet to the said
     point of beginning, containing 6.42 acres, more or less, in Lee County,
     Illinois.
     Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter and Part of the Southwest
     Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 22 North, Range 9, East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian, in Lee County, Illinois, described as follows:
     Beginning at the Northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast
     Quarter of said Section 30; thence West, along the North line of said Southwest
     Quarter of the Southeast Quarter, Sixty one and four tenths (61.4) feet; thence
     Westerly at an angle of 172° 35'; as measured in a clockwise direction from the
     preceding course, Sixty two (62.0) feet; thence Southwesterly, at an angle of
     143° 20' as measured in a clockwise direction from the preceding course, Two
     Hundred Four (204.0) feet to a point which is One Hundred Fifty (150) feet South
     of the North line of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said
     Section 30 and Two Hundred Sixty seven and thirty five hundredths (267.35) feet
765  West of the East line of the Southwest Quarter of the South east Quarter of said
     Section 30; thence South, along a line parallel with and distant Two Hundred
     Sixty seven and thirty five hundredths (267.35) feet West of the East line of
     the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 30, a distance of
     Six Hundred Twenty eight and sixty three hundredths (268.63) feet; thence North
     40° 28' 50" East, Eight Hundred Sixty eight and eighty eight hundredths (868.88)
     feet to the Southwest Right of Way line of S.B.I Route 26; thence North 47° 31'
     30" West, along said Right of Way line, Two Hundred Fifteen (215.0) feet to a
     point on the North line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
     said Section 30; thence West, along the North lines of the Southeast Quarter of
     the Southeast Quarter and the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said
     Section 30, One Hundred Sixty three and seven hundredths (163.07) feet to the
     point of beginning, situated in Lee County, State of Illinois.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section four (4), Township twenty one
     (21) North, Range nine (9), East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County,
     Illinois, described as follows: Commencing on the South line of said Northeast
     Quarter (NE 1/4) at a point one hundred thirty five (135) feet East of the
     center of said Section four (4); thence Northerly parallel with the West line of
     said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) a distance of seven hundred twenty six (726)
783  feet; thence East parallel with the South line of said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/
     4) a distance of seven hundred twenty (720) feet; thence South parallel with the
     West line of said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) a distance of seven hundred twenty
     six (726) feet to the South line of said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4); thence West
     along said South line of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) a distance of seven
     hundred twenty (720) feet to the point of beginning, containing twelve (12)
     acres.
     The South 726.0 feet of the North 1510.4 feet of the West 600.0 feet of the
801  Southwest Quarter of Section 3, Township 21 North, Range 9, East of the Fourth
     Principal Meridian, in Lee County, Illinois.
     Part of Lots 5 and 6 of Mollers Survey in the southeast quarter of Section 29,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois, described as follows: Beginning at the northwest corner of
     Second Addition to Brinton Highlands in the said City of Dixon, also being a
     point on the west line of said Lot 6 of Mollers Survey in Section 29; thence
     easterly on the north line of said Second Addition to Brinton Highlands, one
     hundred fifty three and sixty-nine hundredths feet (153.69') to a point on the
     west line of Lot 27 in said Addition; thence northerly on the said west line of
     Lot 27; thirty five feet (35.00') to the northwest corner of said Lot 27; thence
     easterly on said north line of Second Addition, eight hundred seventy eight feet
832  (878.00') to a point on the west line of First Addition to Brinton Highlands in
     said City of Dixon; thence northerly on the said west line, two hundred seventy
     feet (270.00'); thence westerly parallel with the said north line of Second
     Addition to Brinton Highlands, eight hundred seventy eight feet (878.00) thence
     southerly parallel with the said west line of First Addition to Brinton
     Highlands, thirty five feet (35.00'); thence westerly parallel with the said
     north line of Second Addition to Brinton Highlands, one hundred fifty four and
     twenty-five hundredths feet (154.25') to a point on the said west line of Lot 6
     of Mollers Survey; thence southerly on the said west line of Lot 6, two hundred
     seventy feet (270.00') to the said point of beginning, containing therein, six
     and three hundred ninety-seven thousandths (6.397) acres, more or less.
     The territory known as Third Addition to Brinton Highlands and by this Ordinance
     annexed to the City of Dixon, be and the same is hereby zoned as an R-4 (Two
     Family Dwelling) District.
     Lots Forty (40), Forty one (41), Forty two (42) and Forty three (43) in
     Woessner's Second Subdivision in the West Half (W1/2) of the Southeast Quarter
     (SE 1/4) of Section 4, Township Twenty one (21) North, Range Nine (9), East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof filed in the office
     of the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois, on June 19, 1963 and recorded in Book
     "F" of Plats on pages 78-79, said premises being situated in the County of Lee
     and State of Illinois; ALSO Lots Fifty (50) and Fifty one (51) in Woessner's
     Third Subdivision located in part of the West Half (W1/2) of the Southeast
     Quarter (SE1/4) of Section Four (4), Township Twenty one (21) North, Range Nine
838  (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof filed
     in the Office of the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois on May 21, 1974 and
     recorded in Book "G" of Plats on pages 99-100, said premises being situated in
     the County of Lee and State of Illinois; ALSO All of Tee Street in said
     Woessner's Second Subdivision, being an extension Easterly of Tee Street from
     Tee Street as platted in Woessner's First Subdivision. All of Marvid Avenue in
     said Woessner's Second Subdivision extending between Tee Street and Beech Drive.
     All of Beech Drive in said Woessner's Second Subdivision lying Easterly of the
     East line of Lot Thirty nine (39) in said Subdivision extended Northerly to the
     Northerly boundary line of said Subdivision, said premises being situated in the
     County of Lee and State of Illinois.
     The North seven hundred eighty four and four-tenths feet (784.4') of the West
     six hundred feet (600') of the Southwest Quarter of Section 3, Township 21
     North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian of which approximately the
841  North fifty eight and four-tenths feet (58.4') is dedicated for public roadway
     purposes, in Lee County, Illinois, being indicated on an accurate map of the
     annexed territory, which is referred to herein and made a part of this Ordinance
     by reference.
     The property shall be zoned as M-1.
     Part of the South Half of Section 28, Township 22, North, Range 9 East of the
     4th P.M., Lee County, Illinois, described as follows: Beginning at the Northwest
     corner of Lot 5 in Roll Acres, A Subdivision located in said South Half of
     Section 28, also being a point on the East line of Tilton Park Subdivision,
     located in Section 28; thence Northeasterly on the said East line of Tilton Park
     Subdivision and its Northeasterly extension thereof, 346.09 feet; thence
     Easterly at an angle of 113"09' measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, 130.50 feet; thence Southeasterly at an angle of 170-51'-18"
866  measured counterclockwise from the last described course, 112.63 feet; thence
     Southerly at an angle of 104-06' measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, 138.02 feet; thence Westerly perpendicular to the last
     described course, 200.0 feet; thence Southerly perpendicular to the last
     described course 185.0 feet, to a point on the Easterly extension of the North
     line of Lot 6 in said Roll Acres; thence Westerly on the said Easterly extension
     and North line, 196.71 feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot 5; thence
     Northwesterly on the North line of said Lot 5, 120.0 feet to the said point of
     beginning, containing in all 2.20 acres, more or less.
     All of that part of the Public Road Right of Way known as S.B.I. Route 26 (North
     Galena Avenue), Fourth Avenue, and that portion of Lowell Park Road lying
877  adjacent to the City of Dixon limits lines and contiguous to annexation
     Ordinance Numbers 267, 329, 402, 726 and 765 and as other wise shown on the
     State of Illinois Right of Way Plat for S.B.I. Route 26, Section 7R between
     Stations 572 and Station 602 50, being Sheet No. 2, dated June 1960.
     The above described lands all are situated in the Southeast Quarter of Section
     30, and the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, all in Township 22 North, Range 9
     East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois. And Part of the
     Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of Section Thirty (30), Township Twenty Two (22)
     North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth (4th) Principal Meridian, Lee County,
     Illinois, bounded and described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at the Northwest
     Corner of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of said Section Thirty (30); thence
     Easterly along the North line of said Southeast Quarter (SE1/4), a distance of
     1938.96 feet to a point which is 9 chains 51 links East of the Northwest Corner
     of the East half (E1/2) of said Southeast Quarter (SE1/4); thence Southerly
     parallel to the East line of said Southeast Quarter (SE1/4); at an angel of 88
     degrees 22 minutes 13 seconds as measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, a distance of 519.50 feet to the Point of Beginning of the
     hereinafter described tract of land; thence Southwesterly at an angle of 99
     degrees 37 minutes 13 seconds as measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, a distance of 465.00 feet; thence Southeasterly at an angle of
     73 degrees 46 minutes 43 seconds as measured clockwise from the last described
     course, a distance of 180.00 feet; thence Southerly at an angle of 154 degrees
     09 minutes 30 seconds as measured counter-clockwise from the last described
     course, a distance of 190.00 feet; thence Southwesterly along a radial line at
     an angle of 138 degrees 15 minutes 49 seconds as measured counter-clockwise from
     the last described course, a distance of 331.70 feet to the Southerly Right-of-
     Way line for said S.B.I. Route 26; thence Southeasterly along said Southerly
     Right-of-Way line, a distance of 175.00 feet to the Northerly Right-of-Way line
     for said S.B.I. Route 26; thence Southeasterly perpendicular to the last
     described course to a point 75.00 feet left of S.B.I. Route 26 centerline
     Station 574 00; thence Southeasterly at an angle of 170 degrees 32 minutes 16
     seconds as measured clockwise from the last described course, a distance of
     152.07 feet to a point 100.00 feet lest of S.B.I. Route 26 centerline Station
     575 50; thence Southeasterly at an angle of 189 degrees 27 minutes 44 seconds as
     measured clockwise from the last described course, a distance of 158.05 feet;
     thence Northerly at an angle of 47 degrees 33 minutes 46 seconds as measured
     clockwise from the last described course, a distance of 955.00 feet to the Point
     of Beginning.
     All of Acre Tract number Forty-three (43) in the Survey and Subdivision called
     Loveland Place Tracts, reference being had to the Plat thereof recorded in the
     Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois, in Book "C" of Plats, on page 4, said
883  Tract being laid out upon and a part of that portion of the Southeast Quarter
     (SE 1/4) of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian; Also all that part of Carroll Avenue lying Easterly of and adjacent to
     the above described tract.
     The Southerly Forty Five (45) feet of Lot Number Seventy (70) and all of Lot
886  Number Seventy one (71) except the Southerly Fifteen (15) feet thereof, in Fargo
     Addition to the City of Dixon, County of Lee, State of Illinois.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four (4) in Township Twenty
     one (21) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, in Lee
     County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at a point on the South line
     of the said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four (4), 136.30 feet East of
     the Southwest corner thereof; thence Northerly parallel with the West line of
     said Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4), 726 feet; which is the point of beginning of
     the hereinafter described tract; thence Westerly parallel with the South line of
902  the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four (4) 77.32 feet; thence Northerly
     parallel with the West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four
     (4), 350.0 feet; thence Easterly parallel with the South line of the Northeast
     Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four (4), 797.32 feet; thence Southerly parallel
     with the West line of said Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Four (4) 350.0
     feet; thence Westerly parallel with the South line of the Northeast Quarter (NE
     1/4) of Section Four (4) to the point of beginning, containing 6.41 acres, more
     or less.
     Idle Oak Run, located in part of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the Northeast
     Quarter (NE1/4), and part of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of the Northwest
     Quarter (NW1/4), all in Section Four (4), Township Twenty one (21) North, Range
     Nine (9) East of the Fourth Principal Meridian; Lee County, Illinois, bounded
     and described as follows: Beginning at the Northwest corner of said Northwest
     Quarter (NW 1/4) of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section Four (4); thence
     South 89° 44' 15" East, on the North line of said Section 4, 475.93 feet; thence
     South 03° 01' 19" East, 60.89 feet; thence South 89° 44' 17" East, 158.31 feet;
     thence South 23° 37' 54" West, 360.35 feet; thence South 23° 35' 39" East,
     214.11 feet; thence South 42° 30' 21" East, 300.00 feet; thence South 47° 29'
     39" West, 80.0 feet; thence South 42° 30' 21" East, 210.00 feet; thence South
     47° 29' 39" West, 225.00 feet; thence North 89° 40' 01" West, 75.01 feet; thence
     South 72° 43' 13" West, 169.32 feet; thence North 84° 31' 12" West, 219.95 feet;
     thence North 69° 58' 54" West, 151.70 feet; thence North 81° 52' 54" West,
     109.57 feet to a point on the West line of said Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the
     Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) thence South 00° 25' 38" West, on said West line,
     105.00 feet to the Southwest corner of said Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the
908  Northeast Quarter (NE1/4); thence North 38° 02' 09" West, 723.46 feet; thence
     North 00° 50' 39" West, 203.08 feet; thence North 78° 20' 23" West, 51.40 feet;
     thence on a curve to the right, having a radius of 159.0 feet, from a tangent
     bearing of North 78° 20' 23" West, to a tangent bearing of North 19° 11' 39"
     West, an arc length of 166.74 feet; thence North 19° 11' 39" West, 294.04 feet
     to a point on the Southerly line of Idlewild Drive in Idlewild Park Subdivision;
     thence South 65° 43' 40" East on said Southerly line, 111.34 feet; thence South
     44° 30' 35" West, 23.21 feet; thence South 19° 11' 39" East, 207.16 feet; thence
     on a curve to the left, having a radius of 99.0 feet, from a tangent bearing of
     South 19° 11' 39" East, to a tangent bearing of South 78° 20' 23" East, an arc
     length of 104.80 feet; thence South 78° 20' 23" East, 52.16 feet; thence North
     01° 12' 09" West, 137.89 feet to a point on the South line of said Idlewild Park
     Subdivision; thence North 89° 53' 46" East, on said South line 325.0 feet;
     thence South 00° 25' 38" East, being parallel with the said West line of the
     Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4, 55.0 feet; thence North 89° 53' 46"
     East, 121.0 feet to a point on said West line; thence North 00° 25' 38" West, on
     said West line, 325.0 feet to the said point of beginning, containing therein
     25.191 acres, more or less.
     Part of Lot 6 of Moller's Survey in Section 29, Township 22 North, Range 9 East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, described as follows:
     Beginning at the Northwest corner of Lot 57 in Third Addition to Brinton
     Highlands; thence East on the North line of said Lot 57, 121.25 feet to the
911  Northeast corner thereof, also being a point on the West line of Lot 56 in said
     Third Addition to Brinton Highlands; thence North on the said West line of Lot
     56, 35 feet; thence West parallel with the said North line of Lot 57, 121.32
     feet to the East line of Brinton Avenue; thence South on the said East line of
     Brinton Avenue, 35 feet to the said point of beginning.
917  Property described on Exhibit A adopted by reference in this Ordinance and on
     file in the office of the City Clerk.
     Located in the North Half of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois described as the
     East 560.0 feet of the following described tract: Part of the Southeast Quarter
     (SE1/4) of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range
     9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois bounded and
     described as follows: Beginning at a point of intersection of the Easterly
     extension of the North line of Lowell Heights, a subdivision located in said
     Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, with the East line of
     said Section 31, said point being located 821.5 feet North of the Southeast
     corner of said Northeast Quarter of Section 31; thence Westerly on the said
     Easterly extension of the North line, and Westerly extension thereof, being also
921  the North line of Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 4, a subdivision in said
     Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, 1215.9 feet to a point
     which is 100 feet Easterly from the West line of the said Southeast Quarter of
     the Northeast Quarter, said point also being the Northwest corner of said
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 4; thence Northerly parallel with the said West
     line of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter, 325.75 feet to a point
     being 165.0 feet Southerly from the North line of said Southeast Quarter of the
     Northeast Quarter of Section 31; thence Easterly parallel with the said North
     line, 1215.9 feet to a point on the said East line of Section 31, said point
     being 165.0 feet Southerly from the Northeast corner of said Southeast Quarter
     of the Northeast Quarter; thence Southerly on the said East line of Section 31,
     328.75 feet to the said point of beginning, containing 4.22 acres, more or less.
     Lots fifty-two (52) and fifty-five (55) in Woessner's Third Subdivision located
     in part of the West Half (W1/2) of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of Section Four
     (4) Township Twenty- one (21), North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth
922  Principal Meridian according to the plat thereof filed in the office of the
     Recorder of Lee County, Illinois on May 21, 1974 and recorded in Book "G" of
     Plats on pages 99-100 said premises being situated in the County of Lee and
     State of Illinois.
     The northerly 150 feet of the westerly 100 feet of Block 6 in River Park
929  Addition located in the south half of Section 6, Township 21 North, Range 9 east
     of the 4th Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois; also all that part of Third
     Street and Ells Avenue lying adjacent to the above described parcel.
     The property is zoned R-3.
     That part of Lots 61 through 69 inclusive in E.C. Parson's Industrial Addition
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois lying southerly of the north line of
930  Section 8, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee
     County, Illinois together with that portion of Lincoln Avenue lying westerly of
     and adjacent to the aforesaid described lots, containing 0.853 acres, more or
     less.
     The property is zoned M-1.
     Part of the east 5 acres of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
     Section 4 and part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
     4, all in Township 21 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee
     County, Illinois described as follows: Commencing at the southwest corner of the
     said southwest quarter of the northeast quarter; thence easterly on the south
     line of the said southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 136.30 feet; thence
     northerly parallel with the west line of the said southwest quarter of the
     northeast quarter, 726.00 feet; thence westerly parallel with the south line of
931  the north half of said Section 4, 77.32 feet to the point of beginning of the
     tract being described; thence extending westerly parallel with the said south
     line of the north half of Section 4, 222.68 feet; thence northerly parallel with
     the said west line of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 571.43
     feet to the north line of the said southeast quarter of the northwest quarter;
     thence easterly on the north line of the said southeast quarter of the northwest
     quarter and on the north line of the said southwest quarter of the northeast
     quarter, 222.68 feet; thence southerly parallel with the said west line of the
     southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 570.73 feet more or less to the said
     point of beginning, containing 2.92 acres, more or less.
     Part of the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of
932  the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois being wholly bounded by
     Annexation Ordinance Numbers 634, 750, 801 and 917 containing therein 3.1 acres,
     more or less.
     Part of the northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois being wholly bounded by
     Annexation Ordinance Numbers 46, 299 and 908 containing therein 0.551 acres more
     or less.
     Part of the south half of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois being wholly bounded by
     Annexation Ordinance Numbers 750, 751, 311, 211, 152, 217, 195, 429, 462, 720,
     503, 605, 233, 186, 240 and 634 containing therein 43.0 acres, more or less.
     Part of the southwest quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois being wholly bounded by
     Annexation Ordinance Numbers 282, 164, 634 and on the west by the west line of
     said Section 4, containing therein 0.716 acres, more or less.
     Part of Loveland Place tracts located in part of southeast quarter of Section
     31, Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee
     County, Illinois being wholly bounded by Annexation Ordinance Numbers 257, 270,
     151, 883, 707 and 440, containing therein 9.0 acres, more or less.
     Part of the northeast quarter of Section 31, and part of the southeast quarter
     of Section 30, all in Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois being wholly bounded by Annexation Numbers 267,
     458, 726 and 877 containing therein 6.92 acres, more or less.
     Part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 21
     North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, bounded and described as
     follows: Beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 8 in Idle Oak Run; thence
     south 01° 12'09" east on the westerly line of said Lot 8, 137.89 feet to the
     southwest corner thereof, also being a point on the northerly line of Idle Oak
     Run; thence north 78° 20' 23" west on the said northerly line, 52.16 feet;
     thence northwesterly on said northerly line, on a curve to the right having a
933  radius of 99 feet, an arc length of 104.80 feet; thence north 19° 11' 39" west
     on said northerly line, 207.16 feet; thence north 44° 30' 35" east, on said
     northerly line, 23.21 feet to a point on the southerly line of Idlewild Drive in
     said Idlewild Park Subdivision; thence southeasterly on said southerly street
     line, to the northwest corner of said Lot 12; thence southerly on the west line
     of said Lot 12, 120 feet to the southwest corner thereof; thence easterly on the
     south line of said Idlewild Park Subdivision, 105 feet to the said point of
     beginning;
     Also, beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 9 in Idle Oak Run; thence
     southerly on the west line of said Lot 9, 203.08 feet to the northeast corner of
     Oakwood Cemetery in said City of Dixon; thence westerly on the north line of
     said Cemetery, 148.83 feet to a point which is 225.0 feet easterly from the
     southeast corner of Van Epps Park in said City of Dixon; thence northerly
     parallel with the east line of Lots 7, 6, 5, 4 and 3 in Worsley's Subdivision in
     said City of Dixon, 240 feet to the point of intersection with the north line of
     said Lot 3 as extended easterly; thence westerly on the said easterly extension
     of the north line of Lot 3, 100.0 feet to the northeast corner of said Lot 3;
     thence northerly on the east line of Lots 2 and 1 in said Worsley's Subdivision,
     65.0 feet to a point 5.0 feet north of the southeast corner of said Lot 1;
     thence northwesterly 77.5 feet to a point 80.0 feet north and 20.6 feet west of
     the said southeast corner of Lot 1; thence northwesterly 70.11 feet to a point
     on the north line of said Lot 1, 25.0 feet west of the northeast corner thereof;
     thence northerly parallel with the east line of Steele Avenue in said City of
     Dixon, 142.65 feet to the southerly line of Idlewild Drive in said City of
     Dixon, said point also being the northwesterly corner of Idle Oak Run; thence
     south 19° 11' 39" east on the westerly line of said Idle Oak Run, 294.04 feet;
     thence southeasterly on a curve to the left, having a radius of 159.0 feet, an
     arc length of 166.74 feet; thence south 78° 20' 23" east, 51.40 feet to the said
     point of beginning, situated in Lee County, Illinois.
     The property is zoned R-6.
     All that portion of lands belonging to the Dixon Park District located in
     Sections 31 and 22, Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois and lying westerly of the Illinois Central Gulf
937  Railroad, northerly of Rock River, easterly of North Lincoln Avenue and
     southerly of SBI Route 6, also known as Palmyra Avenue and including therein all
     of that portion of said SBI Route 6, Palmyra Avenue lying northerly of and
     adjacent to the above described property, containing therein 31 acres, more or
     less.
     The property is zoned "Park".
     Part of the northeast quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at the southeast corner of the said northeast quarter; thence
946  northerly on the east line of said Section 4, 665.0 feet; thence westerly
     parallel with the south line of the said northeast quarter, 360.0 feet; thence
     southerly parallel with the said east line of Section 4, 665.0 feet to the said
     south line, of the northeast quarter; thence easterly on the said south line,
     360 feet to the said point of beginning, containing 5.5 acres, more or less.
     The property is zoned M-1.
950  Part of the northeast quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of
     the 4th P.M., Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as follows:
     Beginning at a point on the south line of the northeast quarter of said Section
     4, 360.0 feet westerly from the southeast corner of the said northeast quarter;
     thence northerly parallel with the east line of said Section 4, 665.0 feet;
     thence easterly parallel with the said south line, 360.0 feet to the said east
     section line; thence northerly on said east line of Section 4, 348.48 feet;
     thence westerly parallel with the said south line of the northeast quarter,
     625.0 feet; thence northerly parallel with the said east section line, 10.46
     feet; thence westerly perpendicular from the last described course, 66.0 feet;
     thence southerly parallel with the said east section line, 1023.94 feet to the
     said south line of the northeast quarter; thence easterly on said south line,
     331.00 feet to the said point of beginning, containing herein 11.10 acres, more
     or less.
     The property is zoned M-1.
     Lots 56, 57, 58 and 59 and that portion of Marvid Drive as shown in the plat of
     Woessner's Third Subdivision and together with that portion of the west half of
960  the southeast quarter of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, lying within and being surrounded by the limits of
     the City of Dixon as established under Annexation Ordinance Numbers 217, 317,
     733, 838 and 922.
     Beginning at the northwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 30;
     thence easterly along the north line of said Southeast Quarter, a distance of
     1938.96 feet to a point which is 9 chains 51 links east of the northwest corner
     of the east half of said Southeast Quarter; thence southerly parallel to the
     east line of said Southeast Quarter; at an angle of 88 degrees 22 minutes 13
     seconds as measured counterclockwise from the last described course, a distance
     of 519.50 feet to the northeast corner of Lot 4 of "Independence Courts, Phase
     One"; thence southwesterly along the northerly line of Lots 4, 5 and 6 of said
     "Independence Courts, Phase One", at an angle of 99 degrees 37 minutes 13
     seconds as measured counter-clockwise from the last described course, a distance
     of 465.00 feet to the northwest corner of Lot 6 of said "Independence Courts,
     Phase One"; thence southeasterly along the westerly line of said Lot 6 at an
     angle of 73 degrees 46 minutes 43 seconds as measured clockwise from the last
     described course, a distance of 180.00 feet to the northwest corner of Lot 7 of
     said "Independence Courts, Phase One"; thence southerly along the west line of
     said Lot 7 at an angle of 154 degrees 09 minutes 30 seconds as measured counter-
     clockwise from the last described course, a distance of 190.00 feet to the
     northwest corner of Lot 8 of said "Independence Courts, Phase One"; thence
     southwesterly along the westerly line of said Lot 8 at an angle of 138 degrees
990  15 minutes 49 seconds as measured counter-clockwise from the last described
     course, a distance of 156.70 feet to the northerly right of way line of S.B.I.
     Route 26; thence northwesterly along said northerly right of way line as said
     right of way line is curved concave from southwesterly, having a radius of
     5,804.58 feet, at an angle to the chord of 267 degrees 52 minutes 33 seconds as
     measured clockwise from the last described course, an arc distance of 430.42
     feet; thence northwesterly at an angle of 207 degrees 22 minutes 00 seconds as
     measured clockwise from the last described chord, a distance of 645.10 feet;
     thence southwesterly at an angle of 69 degrees 31 minutes 57 seconds as measured
     clockwise from the last described course, a distance of 354.87 feet to the
     northerly right of way of S.B.I. Route 26; thence northwesterly along said right
     of way line as said right of way line is curved concave from southwesterly,
     having a radius of 5904.58 feet at an angle to the chord of 105 degrees 30
     minutes 07 seconds as measured counter clockwise from the last described course,
     an arc distance of 75.98 feet to the end of said curve; thence northwesterly
     along said northerly right of way line at an angle of 180 degrees 22 minutes 30
     seconds as measured counter-clockwise from the last described chord, a distance
     of 636.28 feet to the west line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 30;
     thence northerly along said west line at an angle of 120 degrees 39 minutes 28
     seconds as measured counter-clockwise from the last described course, a distance
     of 23.77 feet to the point of beginning.
     Lots Six (6), Seven (7) and Eight (8) in Block Three (3) in Loveland Place, a
994  subdivision according to the Plat thereof recorded in the Recorder's Office of
     Lee County in Book "A" of Plats on page 58, all in Lee County, Illinois.
     A part of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 30 in Township 22 North, Range 9 East of
     the 4th P.M., described as follows: Beginning at a point on the East line of the
     Southeast 1/4 of said Section 30 at a distance of 1095 feet Southerly from the
     northeast corner of said Southeast 1/4; thence Westerly parallel with the North
     line of said Quarter Section a distance of 683.64 feet; thence Southerly
     parallel with the East line of said Section 30 to the Northerly right- of-way
     line of State Bond Issue Route 26 (Illinois Route 26); thence Southeasterly on
     the said Northerly right-of-way line to a point which is 100 feet Northerly of
     as measured perpendicular from the center line of said SBI Route 26 at Station
998  585+00, thence Northeasterly 37.88 feet to a point on the Westerly right-of- way
     line of Lowell Park Road said point which is 60 feet Westerly of as measured
     perpendicular from the East line of said Section 30 at Station 22+00; thence
     Northerly on the said Westerly right- of-way line 300 feet to a point 60 feet
     Westerly of as measured perpendicular from the East line of Section 30 at
     Station 25+00; thence Northeasterly on the said Westerly right-of-way line a
     distance of 103.61 feet to a point which is 33 feet Westerly of as measured
     perpendicular from the East line of said Section 30 at Station 26+00; thence
     Easterly 33 feet to the East line of said Section 30 at Station 26+00; thence
     Northerly on said East line a distance of 473.6 feet to the point of beginning,
     all in Lee County, Illinois.
     Part of the northeast quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4, Township 21 north, Range 9
     east of the Fourth principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois bounded and
     described as follows: Beginning at the southeast corner of S.E.D. Addition being
     located in the aforesaid Section 4: thence northerly on the east line of S.E.D.
     Addition, 1076.00 feet to the northeast corner thereof; thence easterly on the
     easterly projection of the north line of said S.E.D. Addition, 350.00 feet;
     thence southerly parallel with the said east line of S.E.D. Addition, 469.5 feet
     more or less to the point of intersection with the easterly projection of the
1011 south line of Lot 5 in said S.E.D. Addition; thence easterly 262.7 feet more or
     less to the point of intersection with the westerly line of I-1 Industrial Park
     Division as it extends northerly from Lot 3 in said I-1 Industrial Park
     Division; thence southerly on the northerly extension and west line of said Lot
     3 and I-1 Industrial Division, 606.46 feet to the southwest corner thereof;
     thence westerly on the south line of the said northeast quarter (NE1/4) of
     Section 4, 612.67 feet to the said point of beginning, also included herein is
     that portion of Illinois Route 38, also known as Franklin Grove Road lying
     southerly of and adjacent to the said last described line, containing in all
     13.147 acres, more or less.
     The property is zoned R-6, B-3.
     Idle Oak Run, Phase II, located in part of the northeast quarter of Section 4,
     Township 21 north, and part of the southeast quarter of Section 33, Township 22
     north, all in range 9 east of the Fourth Principal, Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee
     County, Illinois bounded and described as follows: Beginning at the northeast
     corner of Lot 42 in Idle Oak Run being located in the aforesaid Section 4;
     thence south 89° 44' 15" east, 53.29 feet to the northeasterly most corner of
     said Idle Oak Run; thence south 03° 01' 19" east, on an east line of said Idle
     Oak Run, 60.89 feet; thence south 89° 44' 17" east on said subdivision line,
     158.31 feet; thence south 23° 37' 54" west on said east line, 360.35 feet;
     thence south 23° 35' 39" east on said east subdivision line, 214.11 feet; thence
     south 42° 30' 21" east on said east subdivision line 300.00 feet; thence south
     47° 29' 39" on said east subdivision line, 80.0 feet; thence south 42° 30' 21"
     east on said east subdivision line, 210.00 feet to the southeast corner thereof;
     thence north 88° 14' 29" east, 600.20 feet to a point on the west line of I-
1013 1 Industrial Park Division being a subdivision of part of the said northeast
     quarter of Section 4; thence north 0° 34' 29" east on said west line 155.0 feet
     to the northwest corner thereof; thence north 0° 06' 08" east, 130.0 feet;
     thence north 89° 53' 52" west, 84.00 feet; thence north 0° 06' 08" east, 60.00
     feet; thence north 17° 32' 53" east, 94.65 feet; thence north 70° 03' 03" east,
     232.75 feet; thence north 04° 17' 38" east, 270.00 feet; thence north 85° 42'
     22" west, 175.0 feet; thence north 04° 17' 38" east, 75.0 feet; thence north 85°
     42' 22" west, 190.0 feet; thence northerly on a curve to the left, having a
     radius of 2834.79 feet a chord distance of 32.56 feet; thence north 69° 06' 47"
     west, 300.06 feet; thence south 80° 53' 25" west, 212.42 feet; thence northerly
     on a curve to the left, having a radius of 230.65 feet, a chord distance of
     94.45 feet; thence north 89° 13' 52" west, 257.31 feet; thence south 62° 31' 38"
     west, 98.95 feet; thence south 52° 39' 33" west, 60.0 feet to a point of curve;
     thence southerly on a curve to the right, having a radius of 100 feet, a cord
     distance of 50.94 feet to the said point of beginning, containing herein 21.021
     acres, more or less.
     That lots 48, 49, 50, 42, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58 through 67 except Lot 63 be zoned
     R-2, Lot 63 be zoned R-4, and Lot 51, and 78 be zoned R-5, and all other lots in
     said subdivision to be zoned R-1.
     Part of the south half of Section 28, Township 22 north, Range 9 east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows: Beginning
     at the northeast corner of Lot 5 in second addition to Roll Acres in the City of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; thence easterly on the easterly extension and
     parallel with the south line of said Section 28, 1088.68 feet; thence southerly
     parallel with the east line of said second addition to Roll Acres, 193.2 feet;
1015 thence southwesterly at an angle of 133.00' measured counterclockwise from the
     last described course, 285.0 feet; thence northwesterly perpendicular to the
     last described course, 60 feet; thence westerly parallel with the said south
     line of Section 28, 840 feet more or less to the southeast corner of Lot 6 in
     said second addition to Roll Acres; thence northerly on the east line of said
     second addition to Roll Acres, 342.92 feet to said point of beginning,
     containing 8.3 acres, more or less.
     The property zoned R-2.
     Lots numbers sixty one (61) and sixty two (62) in E.C. Parson's Hill Crest
1031 addition to Dixon, according to the plat thereof recorded in the Recorder's
     Office of Lee County, Illinois in Book "C" of Plats, on page 38, said premises
     being situated in the County of Lee in the State of Illinois.
     The property zoned R-3.
     Part of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 30, Township 22 North, Range 9 East, of the
     4th P.M., Lee County, Illinois, bounded and described as follows, to-wit:
     Commencing at the Northwest corner of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section 30;
     thence Easterly along the North line of said Southeast 1/4, a distance of 800.00
     feet to the Northwest corner of Lot 18 of "Independence Courts Phase Two";
     thence Southeasterly along the Westerly line of Lots 18 and 17 of said
     "Independence Courts Phase Two" at an angle of 111 degrees 23 minutes 29 seconds
     as measured counterclockwise from the last described course, a distance of
     180.00 feet to the point of beginning of the hereinafter described tract of
1055 land; thence continuing Southeasterly along the Westerly line of Lots 17, 16,
     15, 14 and 13 of said "Independence Courts Phase Two" on an extension of the
     last described course, a distance of 645.10 feet to the Northerly right of way
     line of S.B.I. Route 26; thence Northwesterly along said right of way line as
     said right of way line is curved concave from Southwesterly and having a radius
     of 5804.58 feet, at an angle to the chord of 32 degrees 32 minutes 34 seconds as
     measured counterclockwise from the last described course, an arc distance of
     618.34 feet; thence Northeasterly at an angle of 77 degrees 55 minutes 29
     seconds as measured counterclockwise from the last described chord, a distance
     of 354.87 feet to the point of beginning.
     The property zoned B-3.
1065 TERRITORY A
     Lots thirty nine (39), forty (40) and forty one (41) of Martin's subdivision of
     a part of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of Section thirty one (31), Township
     twenty two (22) North, Range nine (9) east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, and
     part of the Northeast Fractional Quarter (NE Fr1/4) of Section six (6), Township
     twenty one (21) North, Range nine (9) east of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
     reference being had to the plat of said subdivision recorded in the Recorder's
     office of Lee County in Book C of Plats, page 48, situated in the County of Lee
     and the State of Illinois.
     The territory zoned R-1.
     TERRITORY B
     All of that part of the following described property lying north of the south
     line of Section 28. A part of Sections 28 and 33 in Township 22 North, Range 9
     east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, the point of
     beginning being described as follows: Commencing at a point on the easterly line
     of Forest Avenue (now known as Washington Ave) in the town of North Dixon which
     point is 781.75 feet northwesterly from the intersection of said easterly line
     of Forest Avenue and the northerly right of way line of the I.C. Railroad;
     thence north 71° 08' east, 1206 feet to the point of intersection with the said
     northerly right of way line said point of intersection being the point of
     beginning; thence south 71° 08' west, 646 feet; thence south 19° 01' east,
     319.80 feet; thence north 71° 08' west 274 feet to the point of intersection
     with the said northerly right of way line of the I.C. Railroad; thence
     northeasterly on a curve to the left on the said northerly right of way line to
     the point of beginning, containing 3.44 acres, more or less.
     TERRITORY C
     1. Part of the east half of Section 20 and part of the Northwest Quarter of the
     Southwest Quarter of Section 21 all in Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows: Commencing
     at the northwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 20; thence
     southerly on the west line of said Southeast Quarter, 1069.75 feet; thence
     easterly parallel with the north line of said Southeast Quarter, 2793.0 feet;
     thence northeasterly at an angle of 143 measured clockwise from the last
     described course, 369.8 feet to the southerly right of way line of the Illinois
     Central Gulf Railroad being the point of beginning of the tract being described;
     thence southwesterly on the last described line, 369.8 feet; thence westerly
     parallel with the north line of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, 2793.0 feet
     to the west line of the said Southeast Quarter; thence northerly on the said
     west line, 1069.75 feet to the northwest corner of the said Southeast Quarter;
     thence easterly on the north line of the said Southeast Quarter, 60 feet; thence
     north 59° 50' east, 437.0 feet; thence easterly parallel with the north line of
     said Southeast Quarter; 1050 feet; thence north 88 feet to the said southerly
     right of way line of the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad; thence southeasterly on
     said southerly right of way line to the said point of beginning, containing 75
     acres, more or less.
     2. All that part of the Illinois Department of Mental Health property not
     presently in the City of Dixon lying in the south half of Section 21, Township
     22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois
     between the westerly edge of Rock River and the easterly right of way line of
     the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad also part of the east half of the Northwest
     Quarter of Section 28, Township 22 North, Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal
     Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows: Commencing at the
     centerline of the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad on the north section line of
     said Section 28; thence east 1188 feet for a point of beginning; thence south
     165 feet; thence east 165 feet; thence north to the north line of said Section
     28; thence west along said north line to the point of beginning, containing in
     all 64.6 acres, more or less.
     3. Part of the west half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 28, Township 22
     north Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois
     described as follows: Beginning at the northwest corner of the south half of the
     Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 28; thence northerly
     on the west line of said Section 28 to a point 1649.1 feet north of the
     southwest corner of the said Northwest Quarter of Section 28; thence easterly
     perpendicular to the last described course to the westerly right of way line of
     the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad; thence southerly on the said westerly right
     of way line to the north line of the said south half of the Southwest Quarter of
     the Northwest Quarter of Section 28; thence westerly on the said north line to
     the said point of beginning, containing 22.7 acres, more or less.
     4. The easterly 14 feet of the following described tract: Part of the east half
     of the east half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 22 north,
     Range 9 east of the Fourth Principal Meridian described as follows: Beginning at
     a point on the west line of the said east half of the east half, 528 feet south
     of the northwest corner thereof; thence east 264 feet; thence south 200 feet;
     thence west 264 feet to the said west line; thence north on the said west line
     to the said point of beginning.
     A part of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of
     Section nine (9), in Township twenty one (21) north, Range nine (9), east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, bounded as follows to-wit: Commencing at a point in
     the eastern boundary line of the highway known as the Peoria Road, which is 50
     links east of the southwest corner of lands conveyed by Asa G. Judd to Robert B.
     Fargo, by deed dated October 24, 1879, and recorded in the Recorder's office of
1066 Lee County, Illinois, in Book "40" of Deeds, at page 457, and running thence
     north 151/2 degrees west, along the easterly boundary line of said highway, a
     distance of 130 feet to the place of beginning, of the tract intended to be
     described; thence running north 151/2 degrees west along the easterly boundary
     line of said highway, a distance of 130 feet; thence east, 10 chains, thence
     south 151/2 degrees east, 130 feet; thence west, 10 chains to the place of
     beginning. ALSO, including all that part of Illinois Route 26 lying westerly of
     and adjacent to the above described tract, containing 2.0 acres, more or less.
     The property zoned B-3.
     A part of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of
     Section Nine (9), in Township twenty one (21), North, Range nine (9) east of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, in Lee County, Illinois, bounded as follows:
     Commencing at a point on the easterly boundary line of the Highway known as the
     Peoria Road, at a distance of fifty (50) links east from the southwest corner of
     a tract conveyed by Asa G. Judd to Robert B. Fargo, by a deed dated October
1067 24th, 1879, and recorded in the office of the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois,
     in Book "40" of Deeds on page 457, and from said point of beginning running
     thence north 151/2 degrees west along the easterly boundary line of said Highway
     at a distance of 130 feet; and thence east ten (10) chains; thence south 151/
     2 degrees east one hundred thirty feet (130'), and thence west ten (10) chains
     to the place of beginning. ALSO, including all that part of Illinois Route 26
     lying westerly of and adjacent to the above described tract, containing 2.0
     acres more or less.
     The property zoned B-3.
     Part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township 21, north, Range 9 east of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at the point of intersection of the south line of said Northwest
     Quarter with the centerline of Illinois Route No. 26 said point being located
     921.79 feet east of the southwest corner of the said Northwest Quarter; thence
     easterly on the south line of the said Northwest Quarter, 728.50 feet; thence
     northerly perpendicular to the last described course, 633.00 feet; thence
     westerly parallel with the said south line of the Northwest Quarter, 366.47
1068 feet; thence northwesterly at an angle of 104° 12' 42" measured counterclockwise
     from the last described course, 1213.09 feet to the south line of property
     presently owned by Ezra and Mary Deputy; thence westerly at an angle of 103° 26'
     13" measured clockwise from the last described course on the said south line of
     the Deputy property, 492.46 feet to the centerline of Illinois Route No. 16;
     thence south easterly on said centerline, 1853.21 feet to the said point of
     beginning; Also including all that part of Illinois Route No. 26 lying westerly
     of and adjacent to the above described tract and all that part of Bloody Gulch
     Road lying southerly of and adjacent to the above described tract, containing in
     all 28.2 acres, more or less.
     The property zoned B-3.
     Part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township 21, north, Range 9 east of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at a point on the south line of the said Northwest Quarter of Section
     9, 1650.29 feet east of the southwest corner thereof; thence northerly
     perpendicular to the last described course, 633.00 feet; thence westerly
     parallel with said south line of the Northwest Quarter, 366.47 feet; thence
     northwesterly at an angle of 104° 12' 42" measured counterclockwise from the
1072 last described course, 1213.09 feet to the south line of property presently
     owned by Mary Deputy; thence easterly at an angle of 76° 33' 47" measured
     counterclockwise from the last described course, 724.35 feet; thence southerly
     1818.76 feet to a point on the said south line of the Northwest Quarter, 60 feet
     east of the said point of beginning; thence westerly on the said south line 60
     feet to the said point of beginning; ALSO: All that part of Bloody Gulch Road
     lying southerly of and adjacent to the above described tract, containing in all
     16.49 acres, more or less.
     The property zoned B-3.
     Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois described as
     follows: Beginning at the Northeast corner of Lot 10 in Long's Jefferson Park
     Subdivision No. 4; thence Southerly on the East line of Lots 10 and 11 in said
     Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 4, 300 feet to the Southeast corner of
     said Lot 11; thence Easterly on the North line of Lot 12 in said Long's
     Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 4, 65 feet; thence extending Easterly on the said
1082 North line of Lot 12, 47.55 feet to the Northeast corner thereof, also being the
     Northwest corner of Lot 8 in Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1; thence
     Northeasterly on the North line of said Lot 8, 125.20 feet to the Northeast
     corner thereof; thence Southerly on the East line of said Lot 8, 10 feet; thence
     Easterly on the North line of said Long's Jefferson Park Subdivision No. 1, 180
     feet to the west line of Lowell Heights; thence Northerly on the said west line,
     297.5 feet to the South line of Vitale Subdivision; thence westerly on the said
     South line and an extension thereof to the said point of beginning, containing
     2.9 Acres, more or less.
     Part of the South Half of Section 28, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows: Commencing
     at the Northeast corner of Lot 5 in Second Addition to Roll Acres in the City of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; thence Easterly on the Easterly extension and
     parallel with the South line of said Section 28, 1088.68 feet to the point of
     beginning of the tract of land being described; thence Southerly parallel with
     the East line of said Second Addition to Roll Acres, 193.2 feet; thence
     Southwesterly at an angle of 133° 00' measured counterclockwise from the last
     described course, 285.0 feet; thence Northwesterly perpendicular to the last
     described course, 60 feet; thence westerly parallel with the said South line of
     Section 28, 860.89 feet more or less to the Northeast corner of Lot 6 in the
     First Addition to Roll Acres; thence Southerly on the East line of said Lot 6,
     138.02 feet to the Southeast corner thereof; thence westerly on the South line
     of said Lot 6, 100.0 feet to the intersection of the said South line with the
1083 East line of Lot 7 in said First Addition to Roll Acres as extended Northerly;
     thence Southerly on said Northerly extension and on said East line of Lot 7,
     185.0 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 7; thence westerly on the South
     line of said Lot 7, 65.95 feet to the Northeast corner of Lot 6 in Roll Acres;
     thence Southerly on the East line of said Lot 6, 135.0 feet to the Southeast
     corner of said Lot 6; thence westerly on the South line of said Lot 6, 70.0 feet
     to the intersection of said South line with the East line of Lot 7 in said Roll
     Acres as extended Northerly; thence Southerly on said Northerly extension and on
     said East line of Lot 7, 205.0 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 7 also
     being a point on the South line of said Section 28; thence Easterly on the said
     South line of Section 28 to the Easterly edge of Rock River; thence
     Northeasterly on the said Easterly edge of Rock River to the point of
     intersection with the North line of said Second Addition to Roll Acres as
     extended Easterly; thence westerly on said Easterly extension to the said point
     of beginning; containing 40.0 Acres, more or less.
     Part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township 21 North; Range 9 East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at the point of intersection of the South line of the said Northwest
     Quarter with the centerline of Illinois Route No. 26 said point being located
     921.79 feet east of the Southwest corner of the said Northwest Quarter; thence
     Easterly on the South line of the said Northwest Quarter, 728.50 feet; thence
     Northerly perpendicular to the last described course, 633.00 feet; thence
     westerly parallel with the said South line of the Northwest Quarter, 366.47
1084 feet; thence Northwesterly at an angle of 104° 12' 42" measured counterclockwise
     from the last described course, 1213.09 feet to the South line of property
     presently owned by Ezra and Mary Deputy; thence westerly at an angle of 103° 26'
     13" measured clockwise from the last described course on the said South line of
     the Deputy property, 492.46 feet to the centerline of Illinois Route No. 16;
     thence Southeasterly on said centerline, 1853.21 feet to the said point of
     beginning; Also including at that part of Illinois Route No. 26 lying Westerly
     of and adjacent to the above described tract and all that part of Bloody Gulch
     Road lying Southerly of and adjacent to the above described tract, containing in
     all 28.2 Acres, more or less.
     The tract of land be zoned B-3.
     Part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Beginning at the point of intersection of the South line of the said Northwest
     Quarter of Section 9 with the existing Westerly right of way line of Illinois
     Route 26 said point being located 800.1 feet Easterly of the Southwest corner of
     the said Northwest Quarter; thence westerly on the said South line of the
     Northwest Quarter, 541.63 feet; thence Northerly perpendicular to the last
     described course, 864.45 feet; thence Northeasterly at an angle of 103° 34' 48"
1098 measured counterclockwise from the last described course, 418.12 feet to the
     said existing Westerly right of way line of Illinois Route 26; thence Southerly
     on the said Westerly right of way line at an angle of 81° 40' 10" measured
     counterclockwise from the last described course, 535.84 feet; thence
     Southeasterly on said existing Westerly right of way line of Illinois Route 26
     at an angle of 186° 06' 28" measured counterclockwise from the last described
     course 437.61 feet to the said point of beginning, also all that part of Bloody
     Gulch Road lying Southerly of and adjacent to the above described tract
     containing in all 10.14 Acres, more or less.
     The tract of land be zoned B-3.
1107 Lot 5, Block 3 in Loveland Place, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     The tract of land be zoned R-1.
     Lots Fifty three (53) and Fifty four (54) in Woessner's Third Subdivision
     located in part of the West Half (W1/2) of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of
     Section Four (4), Township Twenty one (21) North, Range Nine (9) East of the
1109 Fourth Principal Meridian according to the plat thereof filed in the Office of
     the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois on May 21, 1974 and recorded in Book "G" of
     Plats on pages 99-100, said premises being situated in the County of Lee and
     State of Illinois.
     The tract of land be zoned R-1.
     Parcel A: The Westerly 78.0 feet of Lots 2 and 3 in Block 3 of Loveland Place,
     the same being a Subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, as referenced
     in on the recorded plat of Loveland Place in the Office of the Recorder of Lee
     County, Illinois. Also: A part of Tract Number Thirty six (36) of Loveland Place
     Tracts, described as follows: Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Tract
1117 Number Thirty six (36); thence Westerly on north line of said tract a distance
     of 15.0 feet; thence Southerly parallel with east line of said Tract 168.0 feet;
     thence Easterly parallel with the northerly line of said Tract 15.0 feet to east
     line of said Tract; thence Northerly along said east line 168.0 feet to the
     beginning said Loveland Place Tracts being survey and subdivision of a part of
     the Southeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, said subdivision recorded in Office of the Recorder
     of Lee County, Illinois, in Block "C" of Plats, page 4.
     Parcel B: That part of Tract Number thirty six (36) of Loveland Place Tracts,
     described as follows: Commencing at the northeast corner of said Tract Number
     thirty six (36); thence Westerly along north line of said Tract 15.0 feet for a
     Point of Beginning; thence continue along aforementioned line 95.0 feet; thence
     Southerly parallel with easterly line of said Tract, 168.0 feet; thence Easterly
     parallel with north line of said Tract 95.0 feet; thence Northerly parallel with
     east line of said Tract 168.0 feet to Point of Beginning, said Loveland Place
     Tracts being a survey and subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of
     Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
     said subdivision recorded in Office of the Recorder of Lee County, Illinois, in
     Book "C" of Plats, Page 4.
1140 The following described property:
     Part of the North Half of Section 20, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the
     Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows: Beginning
     at a point on the North line of said Section 20, 1298.47 feet East of the
     Northwest corner thereof; thence extending Easterly on the said North line of
     Section 20, 2312.72 feet to a point approximately 30 feet West of the West edge
     of Rock River; thence Southwesterly at an angle of 60°-11'- 39" measured
     counterclockwise from the last described course, 1578.13 feet; thence
     northwesterly at an angle of 101°-02'-25" measured counterclockwise from the
     last described course, 924.48 feet, thence Northwesterly at an angle of 140°-
     06'-26" measured counterclockwise from the last described course, 1255.35 feet
     to the said point of beginning, containing 44.9 Acres, more or less,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
1146 The following described property:
     Lot 31 in Martin's Subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian and a part of
     the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 6, Township 21 North, Range 9 East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian according to Plat of said Subdivision recorded
     in the Recorder's Office, in Book "C" of Plats on page 48 in Lee County,
     Illinois, being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is
     appended to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land shall be zoned R-1.
1147 The following described property:
     Lot 37 in Martin's Subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, and a part of
     the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 6, Township 21 North, Range 9 East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian according to Plat of said Subdivision recorded
     in Recorder's Office, in Book "C" of Plats on page 48 in Lee County, Illinois,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land shall be zoned R-1.
1148 The following described property:
     Lot 38 in Martin's Subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, and part of
     the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 6, Township 21 North, Range 9 East
     of the Fourth Principal Meridian according to the Plat of said Subdivision
     recorded in Recorder's Office, in Book "C" of Plats on page 48 in Lee County,
     Illinois,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land shall be zoned R-1.
1156 The following described property:
     Lots 33 and 34 in Martin's Subdivision of a part of the Southeast Quarter of
     Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian and
     a part of the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 6, Township 21 North,
     Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian according to Plat of said
     Subdivision recorded in the Recorder's office, in Book "C" of Plats on page 48
     in Lee County, Illinois.
     ALSO, all that part of Hughes Street lying Northerly of said Lot 34, and all
     that part of the alley lying Westerly of said Lots 33 and 34.
     Said tract of land shall be zoned R-1.
     1162 The following described property:
     All of Lot 10 in Loveland Place Tracts in the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
     Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County,
     Illinois, EXCEPTING the Easterly 19 feet thereof and the Easterly 10 feet of Lot
     11 in said Loveland Place Tracts,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land be zoned R-1.
     1170 The following described property:
     The Westerly 99 feet of Lot 11 in Loveland Place Tracts in the Southeast Quarter
     of Section 31, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
     Lee County, Illinois. ALSO all that part of Long Street lying Southerly of and
     adjacent to the above described property.
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land be zoned R-1.
1179 The following described property commonly known as 201 Fox Trot, Dixon,
     Illinois:
     Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 33, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois, described as follows:
     Beginning at the Northwest corner of Lot 43 in Idle Oak Run in the City of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; thence Easterly on the North line of said Lot 43
     also being the South line of said Section 33, 284.74 feet to the Northeast
     corner of said Lot 43; thence Northwesterly on the extension of the Westerly
     line of Fox Trot in said Idle Oak Run being on a curve to the left having a
     radius of 100 feet a chord distance of 50.0 feet; thence Southwesterly 268.46
     feet to the said point of beginning,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land be zoned R-1.
1185 The following described property commonly known as 1201 Northridge, Dixon,
     Illinois:
     Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 33, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of
     the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee County, Illinois described as follows:
     Commencing at the Southwesterly corner of Lot 88 in Idle Oak Run-Phase II;
     thence Northerly on a curve to the left, having a radius of 290.65 feet, a chord
     distance of 69.80 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Lot 88, being the
     point of beginning of the tract of land being described; thence continuing
     Northerly on said curve to the left, having a radius of 290.65 feet, a chord
     distance of 39.44 feet; thence Easterly parallel with the Northerly line of said
     Lot 88, 152.03 feet; thence Southerly 39.44 feet to the Northeasterly corner of
     said Lot 88; thence Westerly on the said Northerly line, 152.03 feet to the said
     point of beginning, containing 6000 square feet, more or less, subject to a 25'
     building setback on the Westerly side of the above described property,
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory which is appended to
     and made a part of this ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon, Lee
     County, Illinois.
     Said tract of land be zoned R-1.
1234 The following described property:
     A part of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 30 in Township 22 North, Range 9 East of
     the 4th P.M. described as follows: Beginning at a point on the East line of the
     Southeast 1/4 of said Section 30 at a distance of 1095 feet Southerly from the
     northeast corner of said Southeast 1/4; thence Westerly parallel with the North
     line of said Quarter Section a distance of 683.64 feet; thence Southerly
     parallel with the East line of said Section 30 to the Northerly right- of-way
     line of State Bond Issue Route 26 (Illinois Route 26); thence Southeasterly on
     the said Northerly right-of-way line to a point which is 100 feet Northerly of
     as measured perpendicular from the center line of said SBI Route 26 at Station
     585+00, thence Northeasterly 37.38 feet to a point on the Westerly right-of- way
     line of Lowell Park Road said point which is 60 feet Westerly of as measured
     perpendicular from the East line of said Section 30 at Station 22+00; thence
     Northerly on the said Westerly right- of-way line 300 feet to a point 60 feet
     Westerly of as measured perpendicular from the East line of Section 30 at
     Station 25+00; thence Northeasterly on the said Westerly right-of-way line a
     distance of 103.61 feet to a point which is 33 feet Westerly of as measured
     perpendicular from the East line of said Section 30 at Station 26+00; thence
     Easterly 33 feet to the East line of said Section 30 at Station 26+00; thence
     Northerly on said East line a distance of 473.6 feet to the point of beginning,
     all in Lee County, Illinois.
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
1347 That the following described property commonly known as 413 and 417 Carroll
     Avenue, Dixon, Illinois:
     The Southerly 18 feet of Lot 1 and all of Lot 4, all in Block 3 in Loveland
     Place in the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois; also all that part of the 15
     foot alley lying Southerly of and adjacent to said Lot 4.
     being indicated on an accurate map of the annexed territory, which is appended
     to and made a part of this Ordinance, is hereby annexed to the City of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
     The property commonly known as Raynor Mfg. Co., Dixon, Illinois, being indicated
1365 on an accurate map of the annexed territory, is hereby annexed to the City of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1375 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1212 Long Avenue, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1386 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1110 East River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1399 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1100 East River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1409 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1114 East River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1410 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1118 East River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1423 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1218 Palmyra Street, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1491 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1279 Franklin Grove
     Road, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1498 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 2115 W. Third Street, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1501 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1117 Center Street, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1504 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 821 Bloody Gulch Road,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1507 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 1004 E. River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1539 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 256 Deer Chase, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1540 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 920 River Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1547 Ordinance amending Ordinance 1540, commonly known as 920 River Road, to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1550 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as Idle Oak Run - Phase
     III, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1590 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1599 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1630 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1646 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1655 Ordinance annexing certain territory, commonly known as 876 Stoney Point Road,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing certain territory, being described as a portion of the
1656 Illinois Control Gulf Railroad right of way, to the City of Dixon, Lee County,
     Illinois.
1673 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1214 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1680 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Middle Road, to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1689 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Idle Oak Run Phase IV, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1705 Ordinance annexing certain territory, described as Fieldstone Ltd., to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1727 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 894 Stoney Point Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1742 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1200 N. Galena Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1754 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1104 and 1108 East River
     Road, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1788 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 869 Stoney Point Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1851 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1208 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1854 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1032, 1040 and 1042 East
     River Road, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1864 Ordinance annexing certain territory located north of Shopko and west of Lowell
     Park Road, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1865 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Brinton Highlands, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1866 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 19th Green, to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1867 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Fieldstone II, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1981 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1250 Franklin Grove Road,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
1998 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2015 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1211 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2016 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 505 Carroll Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2017 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 308 Willett Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2026 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 872 Stoney Point Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2027 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Lot 1 in 19th Green, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2028 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1203 and 12031/2 Fourth
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2031 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1103 Center, to the City
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2032 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 934 East River Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2033 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 425 Carroll Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2034 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 107 Keul Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2035 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1325 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2036 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1210 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2037 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 404 North Lincoln Avenue,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2042 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2047 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 666 Palmyra Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2056 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1116 Center Street, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2057 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2016 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2058 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1008 Woodlawn, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2059 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2025 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2062 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1575 Franklin Grove Road,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2063 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 10081/2 Woodlawn, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2066 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1219 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2067 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1007 Grandview, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2068 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 664 Palmyra Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2084 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 601 Carroll Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2087 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2024 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2088 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2031 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2095 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1220 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2103 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1220 Adelheid, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2104 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2106 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1008 Grand View, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2115 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1009 Grand View, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2116 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1303 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2117 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1226 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2120 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2112 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2123 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1228 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2124 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1307 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2129 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2114 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2131 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 118 Eells Avenue, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2133 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1313 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2134 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1110 Grandview, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2135 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1015 Fourth Avenue, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2136 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1311 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2137 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1304 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2147 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2116 West First Street,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2148 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 103 Eells Avenue, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2149 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1314 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2150 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 115 North Lincoln Avenue,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2157 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1321 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2158 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1316 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2165 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 104 Eells Avenue, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2168 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 887 Shop Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2193 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1413 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2194 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 928 River Road, Rt. 2, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2198 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1590 Dutch Road, to the
     City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2199 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1415 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2208 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 827 West Progress Drive,
     to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2209 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 892 Stony Point Road, to
     the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2210 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1306 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2211 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1310 South College
     Avenue, to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2216 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2216 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2217 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1113 Grand View, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2218 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1118 Woodlawn, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2219 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1560 Lovett Drive, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2221 Ordinance amending ordinance 2199 to contain a more accurate legal description
     of the annexed territory.
2235 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 816 West Progress Drive,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2242 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1550 Franklin Grove Road,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2253 Ordinance annexing certain territory located at Warp Road and Illinois Route 38
     East, to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2254 Ordinance annexing certain territory located at Warp Road, to the city of Dixon,
     Lee County, Illinois.
2255 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2220 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2261 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 816 West Progress Drive,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2263 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1425 Franklin Grove Road,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2264 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1555 Lovett Drive, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2265 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1570 Lovett Drive, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2270 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1415 Franklin Grove Road,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2276 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 828 West Progress Drive,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2279 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Deer Chase, Great Oaks,
     and Grand Oaks Lane, to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2280 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Dutch Road, to the city
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2289 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1115 Grandview, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2299 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2224 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2303 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1214 South College, to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2332 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1116 Grandview, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2333 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2302 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2338 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 116 Eells Avenue, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2346 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2304 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2351 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1124 Grand View, to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2360 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2306 West First Street,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2366 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1230 Van Buren Avenue to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2367 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2303 West First Street to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2371 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1121 - 1123 Grand View to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2372 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1124 Woodlawn to the city
     of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2374 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2308 West First Street to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2383 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1217 Palmyra Street to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2389 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2600 West Third Street to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2392 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2305 West First Street to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2401 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 815 Progress Drive to the
     city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2406 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 421 North Lincoln Avenue
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing certain territory located east of Illinois Route 2, south of
2410 Shop Road, and north of Stoney Point Road to the city of Dixon, Lee County,
     Illinois.
2435 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1504 South Galena Avenue
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2449 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1207 East River Road to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of section 31,
2465 township 22 north, range 9 east of the fourth principal meridian, to the city of
     Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 14.984 acres
2475 located south of the Dixon city limits on the east side of Illinois Route 26 to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2504 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1419 North Galena Avenue,
     to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing certain territory described as the Northerly 165.0 feet of
2508 the Southerly 395.0 feet of the Easterly 255.08 feet of the Southwest Quarter of
     Section 20, Township 22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, to
     the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2513 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Country Club Estates -
     phase II, to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2514 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Country Club Estates -
     phase I, to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2519 Ordinance amending annexation ordinance 2508, section 2.
2520 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2534 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2536 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2543 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the city of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2578 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2010 Lowell Park Road,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2581 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 134 Fieldstone Lane,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2582 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as Interstate 88 and Route
     26, Dixon, Illinois.
2599 Ordinance annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 27 acres.
2600 Ordinance annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 32 acres.
2603 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1365 Franklin Grove Road,
     Dixon, Illinois.
     Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 740 Timber Creek Road,
2662 Dixon, Illinois.2663Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 738
     Timber Creek Road, Dixon, Illinois.
2664 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 736 Timber Creek Road,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2677 Ordinance annexing certain territory located at the southeast intersection of
     Bloody Gulch Road and Illinois Route 26, Lee County, Illinois.
2681 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 744 Timberlake Road,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2684 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 2115 W. First Street,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2704 Ordinance annexing certain territory commonly known as 1219 Palmyra Street,
     Dixon, Illinois.
2716 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2728 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2794 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
2982 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
3012 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
3016 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (863, 865 and 867 Raynor Road).
3061 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with ZMM
     Industrial Properties, LLC.
3068 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (2310 W. Fourth Street).
3069 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (1009 4th Avenue).
3070 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (1501 Brinton Avenue).
3079 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (ZMM Industrial Properties, LLC).
3084 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (2014 Lowell Park Road).
3090 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Kevin S.
     Rogers.
3091 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (Veterans Memorial Park).
3094 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (611 Reynoldswood Dr.).
3105 Ordinance annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois
     (628 Palmyra Road).3247
3247 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation with Donna M. Muntean and
     Georgia A. Armstrong.
     Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Celia Fulfs
     Marin, as trustee under the provisions of a trust agreement dated July 8, 2012
3248 and known as the Fulfs Family Trust, Mae Fulfs McClernon, as trustee under the
     provisions of a trust agreement dated August 28, 1977 and known as the Mae Fulfs
     McClernon Revocable Trust, and Kay Fulfs Cayler.
     Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Wayne R.
3249 Hummel, not individually bu as trustee of the Wayne R. Hummel Trust under
     declaration dated October 5, 2020, and Wayne R. Hummel, individually.
3250 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Hummel
     Family Farms LLC.
3251 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Jerry L.
     Ferguson, Larry G. Clayton and Connie A. Clayton.
     Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with the Chicago
     Trust Company, N.A., not personally, but soley as trustee of the Phyllis Louise
3252 Wissing Holt Trust under the Richard W. Wissing Trust dated September 25, 1996,
     and Rodney H. Piercey, not personally, but solely as trustee of the Norma J.
     Wissing Revocable Trust dated September 25, 1996.
3253 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Dixon Land
     Group, LLC.
3254 Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Hvarre
     Holdings, LLC
3265 Authorizing the execution of Amendment No. 1 to annexation agreement with Dixon
     Land Group, LLC.
3266 Annexing certain territory belonging to Herry L. Ferguson, Larry G. Clayton and
     Connie A. Clayton
3267 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Hummel
     Family Farms, LLC)
3268 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Wayne R.
     Hummel Trust)
3269 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, and
     authorizing a change of zoning pursuant to the petition of Dixon Land Group, LLC
3270 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Fulfs
     Family)
3271 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon (Wissing Trusts)
3272 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Hvarre
     Holdings, LLC)
3273 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Donna M.
     Muntean and Georgia A. Armstrong)
3371 Annexing certain territory to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois (Overlook
     Gardens)
3380 Annexing Certain Territory Wholly Bounded by the City of Dixon in Overlook
     Gardens Subdivision - 1676 Overlook Drive
3381 Annexing Certain Territory Wholly Bounded by the City of Dixon in Overlook
     Gardens Subdivision - 780 Evelynn Rose Lane
3382 Annexing Certain Territory Wholly Bounded by the City of Dixon in Overlook
     Gardens Subdivision - 1698 Kimberly Jo Court
3410 Annexing Certain Territory Wholly Bounded by the City of Dixon - (Parcel 1 - Lee
     County Properties, LLC, Parcel 2 - EEB Properties, LLC)
 
APPENDIX B
VACATIONS
Reference/Ord. No. Name
Reference/Ord. No.    Name
                      Boyd Street, Westerly from extension northerly of east
February 3, 1920      line of Lot 59, in E. C. Parson's Addition to the City of
                      Dixon.
                      Boyd Street, small parcel bounded on the west by East
                      line of Lot 88 in E.C.Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the
                      City of Dixon projected north; on north by north line of
April 10, 1928        Lot 45 in E. C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the City
                      of Dixon projected east; on east by east line of Lot 1 in
                      Block 65 in town of North Dixon, projected north; and on
                      the south by north line of Lot 1 in Block 65 in Town of
                      North Dixon.
February 14, 1868     Brooks Street (Now Brooks Place) all lying north of north
                      line of Chambers (Chamberlin?) Street.
August 16, 1901       Brooks Street (Now Brooks Place) south of Fellows Street.
July 18, 1947         Canal Court, between Harrison Avenue and Lincoln Avenue.
November 9, 1891      Centre Street (Now part of College Avenue), west of east
                      line of Riverside Addition.
September 3, 1897     Chicago Street (An extension of Chicago Avenue) from May
                      13, 1898 Seventh Street northwesterly to Ottawa Avenue.
October 7, 1912       College Avenue, north of River Street.
                      College Avenue, from South Broadway to Chicago &
February 12, 1897     Northwestern right-of-way; and also adjoining lots and
                      blocks.
May 31, 1950          Depot Avenue, small parcel adjoining Lot 6 in Block 18 in
                      Dement's Addition.
June 21, 1940         Dixon Avenue from North line of First Street, north 150
                      feet.
June 21, 1949         Douglas Avenue, between Sixth Street and Fourth Street.
April 19, 1949        Eighth Street from west line of Van Buren Avenue to east
                      line of railroad right-of-way.
October 8, 1888       Everett Street east of the Southwest Corner of Block 1 in
                      North Dixon.
                      Fourth Street between Galena Street (Now Avenue) and
October 16, 1861      Market Street (Now Highland Avenue), (Presently open and
                      traveled between Peoria Avenue and Highland Avenue.
November 18, 1924     Fourth Street northerly 20 feet in width lying south and
                      adjacent to Lot 8 in Block 39 in Original Town of Dixon.
November 4, 1947      Fourth Street from easterly line of Central Place to west
                      line of Illinois Central Railroad right-of-way.
February 23, 1866     "G" Street (Now Douglas Avenue) between Blocks 14 and 15
                      in West Dixon, and thence to Rock River.
March 2, 1866         "H" Street (Now Logan Avenue) between Blocks 55 and 56,
                      61 and 62, in West Dixon, (Presently open and traveled).
                      Highland Avenue, west of and adjoining Lots 4 and 7 in
March 9, 1920         Block 7 in the Original Town of Dixon, and east of
                      present (1920) concrete wall of waterway in Highland
                      Avenue.
September 1, 1944     Hancock Avenue, all North of Fourth Street.
July 18, 1947         Harrison Avenue, north or River Street Reserves easement
                      to City to repair sanitary sewer.
                      Inlet Avenue, all east of easterly line of Ottawa Avenue
September 6, 1907     southerly prolongation of said easterly line and south of
                      southerly line of Spruce Street and westerly prolongation
                      of southerly line.
July 28, 1931         Inlet Avenue from Ninth Street south to Spruce Street.
                      "J" Street (Now Sherman Avenue) and Middle Street (Now
February 23, 1866     Second Street, between Blocks 37, 38, 38 and 40 in West
                      Dixon.
June 5, 1882          Jackson Street from First Street to Third Street.
November 12, 1887
                      Jackson Street from First Street North to right-of-way of
                      Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company, between Blocks 7
July 22, 1890         and 8 of Subdivision of West half (W1/2) Northwest
                      quarter (NW1/4), Section 5, Township 21 North, Range 9
                      East of 4th Principal Meridian.
May 13, 1930          Jackson Avenue (Jackson Place), north of River Street,
                      (See "A" Miscellaneous, 484 and 485.
                      Middle Street (Now Second Street) and "J" Street (Now
February 23, 1866     Sherman Avenue), between Blocks 37, 38, 39 and 40, in
                      West Dixon.
February 1, 1867      Market Street (Now Highland Avenue), from Second Street
                      to Third Street.
November 7, 1881      Madison Avenue, 25 Feet in width off east side from First
                      Street to River Street.
March 20, 1924        North Ottawa Avenue, all northerly of north line of East
                      Graham Street.
                      Ottawa Avenue, all east of easterly line of Ottawa Avenue
September 6, 1907     and southerly prolongation of said easterly line, and
                      south of southerly line of Spruce Street and westerly
                      prolongation of said southerly line.
                      Ottawa Avenue (See "C" Plats, 21), beginning at the most
                      southerly corner of Lot 11 of said Park Manor Addition,
                      as recorded in the County Recorder's Office, on Page 21
                      of Book "C" of Plats, and running north easterly in a
                      straight line 32.5 feet to the southeast corner of said
                      Lot 11; thence running northerly along the easterly line
September 13, 1932    of Lots 10 and 11, 15.8 feet to the westerly line of
                      State Bond Issue Route No. 89 produced, thence running
                      southerly along said westerly line produced; 54.6 feet to
                      the east line of Section 5, thence South along the said
                      East line of Section 5, 175.2 feet to the easterly line
                      of Peoria Avenue produced; thence northwesterly along
                      said easterly line of Peoria Avenue produced 63.5 feet to
                      the place of beginning.
                      Ottawa Avenue, a strip of land 12 feet wide on the north,
                      and 14.9 feet wide on the south, and 109 feet long
                      adjoining lots on the east in Park Manor Addition to the
                      City of Dixon, as shown by the Plat recorded in the
                      office of the Recorder of Lee County, in Book "C" of
January 7, 1938       Plats, Page 21, and a part of the South half (S 1/2) of
                      the Northeast One-fourth (NE1/4) of the Southeast One
                      fourth (SE 1/4) of the Southeast One-fourth (SE1/4) of
                      Section Five (5), Township Twenty-one (21) North, Range
                      Nine (9), East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, in said
                      Lee County, Illinois, and which said strip of land is a
                      portion of Ottawa Avenue.
June 27, 1947         Ottawa Avenue easterly 101/2 feet adjacent to Lot 6 in
                      Block 3 in the Original Town of Dixon.
July 1, 1904          Perry Place north of River Street.
                      Poplar Street south of line 33 feet south of north line
October 26, 1915      of Southwest quarter (SW1/4), Section 4, Township 21
                      North, Range 9, East of 4th Principal Meridian, and east
                      of Walnut Avenue.
                      River Street, the northerly 13.2 feet and the southerly
August 13, 1937       6.8 feet from westerly line of Peoria Avenue to a line
                      parallel with and 150 feet westerly thereof.
March 2, 1866         Stiles Street, between Blocks 54 and 63, 55 and 62, 56
                      and 61, 57 and 60, 58 and 59, in West Dixon.
June 5, 1882          Second Street from Adams Street (Now College Avenue) to
November 12, 1887     Van Buren Street (Now Van Buren Avenue)
February 12, 1897     South Broadway, 10 feet in width off each side, from
                      Nachusa Avenue to I.C. Railway Co. right-of-way.
February 12, 1897     South Broadway, west of Nachusa Avenue.
January 2, 1934       Second Street, Custer Avenue to East line of Lots 24 and
                      59 in Maple Park Addition to the City of Dixon.
January 2, 1934       Sheridan Avenue, south line of Alley north of Second
                      Street to North line of Alley south of Second Street.
June 27, 1947         Second Street, all west of Custer Avenue.
                      Third Street, all south of and adjoining Lot 1 in Block
                      39 in the Town of West Dixon bounded as follows:
                      Commencing at the Southwest Corner of said Lot 1 and
April 22, 1924        thence southerly with extension of west line of said Lot
                      1, 20 feet; thence northeasterly along north line of
                      present (1924) Third Street, 851/2 feet to south line of
                      said Lot 1; thence westerly along south line of said Lot
                      1, 84.67 feet to place of beginning.
                      Upham Street, southerly from extension westerly of North
February 3, 1920      line of Lot 23 in E.C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition to
                      the City of Dixon.
                      Upham Street, small parcel in E.C. Parson's Black Hawk
                      Addition to the City of Addition to the City of Dixon,
                      described as follows: Beginning at a point on the west
                      line of Upham Street, 15 feet south of Southeast Corner
                      of Lot 102; thence east 20 feet; thence at right angles
September 25, 1936    South, parallel with east line of Lots 101 and 102, 50
                      feet more or less to extension west of North line of Lot
                      23; thence west along extension of North line of Lot 23,
                      20 feet to east line of Lot 101; thence north a long east
                      line of Lot 101 and extension thereof, 50 feet to the
                      place of beginning.
March 29, 1946        Upham Street, easterly 16 feet adjacent to Lot 22 in E.C.
                      Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the City of Dixon.
April 22, 1887        Van Buren Street (Now Van Buren Avenue) from North First
                      Street to Railroad Track.
                      Water Street (Now Canal Court and further vacated), all
February 23, 1866     of Water Street between Blocks 1 and 14, between Block 15
                      and Rock River, in West Dixon; (i.e., all west of Lincoln
                      Avenue).
March 2, 1866         Washington Street (Now Dement Avenue), between Blocks 20
                      and 21 in Town of Dixon.
October 8, 1888       Water Street, east of Southwest corner of Block 1 in
                      North Dixon.
                      Water Street (Now part of Lincoln Statue Drive), westerly
February 3, 1920      from extension southerly of east line of Lot 74 in E.C.
                      Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the City of Dixon.
                      Water Street, south of Lots 12, 11, 10, 9, and east 25
                      feet of Lot 8 in B lock 53, in Town of North Dixon; south
July 17, 1924         of Block 34 in Town of North Dixon; south of East Boyd
                      Street and east from Brinton Avenue to a point 118 feet
                      east of Brinton Avenue.
                      Unnamed Street or road upon old right-of-way of Illinois
July 7, 1899          Central Railroad, across Lots 2, 3, 5 and 6, in Block 68
                      in the Original Town of Dixon.
                      Unnamed Alley, between Water Street and Boyd Street and
February 3, 1920      running westerly from extension northerly of east line of
                      Lot 74 in E.C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the City
                      of Dixon.
February 3, 1920      Unnamed Alley, northerly of and adjoining Lot 101 in E.C.
                      Parson's Black Hawk Addition to the City of Dixon.
                      Unnamed Alley in Steinmann's Addition to City of Dixon
August 17, 1926       north of and adjacent to Lots 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97,
                      98, 99 and 101 in Steinmann's Addition.
August 17, 1926       Unnamed Alley in Steinmann's Addition of the City of
                      Dixon, between Lots 99 and 101 in Steinmann's Addition.
                      Unnamed Alley in E.C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition to
April 10, 1928        City of Dixon, all easterly from extension northerly of
                      Lot 74 in E.C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition.
                      Unnamed Alley in E.C. Parson's Addition to City of Dixon,
April 10, 1928        east of Lot 45 E.C. Parson's Black Hawk Addition to City
                      of Dixon, and West of Lot 1 in Block 65 in Town of North
                      Dixon.
                      Unnamed Alley, 10 feet x 120 feet from East First Street
January 31, 1936      to Commercial Alley, between Galena Avenue and Ottawa
                      Avenue (See "M", Deeds, 452).
                      Unnamed Alley, running north from King Street (Sixth
October 2, 1936       Street) to Rock Island Road (now Fourth Street) between
                      Douglas Avenue and Lincoln Avenue.
June 27, 1947         Unnamed Alley, between First Street and Second Street and
                      West of Custer Avenue.
June 27, 1947         Unnamed Alley, between Second Street and Third Street and
                      West of Custer Avenue.
July 2, 1909          Unnamed Alley in Block 18 in Original Town of Dixon,
                      between Lots 1 and 4, and Lots 2 and 3.
                      Unnamed Alley, running westerly from Custer Avenue to
July 27, 1948         vacated Hancock Avenue between Third Street and Clark
                      Street.
April 19, 1949        Unnamed Alley west of Block 48 in Dement's Third
                      Addition, from Seventh Street to Eighth Street.
July 11, 1950         Unnamed Alley, from Seventh Street south to south line of
                      Lots 4 and 10 in Block 17 in Dement's Addition.
                      Lots, Blocks and Streets in Dements Addition to the City
                      of Dixon, Blocks 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,
                      37, 38, 39 and 40 - also all the streets and alleys
                      bordering upon the following named blocks - except South
                      Broadway and those parts of Depot, Centre and Quarry
                      Streets, extending north from said South Broadway into
                      the Depot Grounds of the Galena and Chicago Union Railway
                      Company - also Blocks 44 - also Lots Nos. 1, 2, 6, 11,
                      12, 13 and 14 in Block No. 45, and Lots Nos. 1, 2, 3, 6,
                      11, 12, 13 and 14 and in Block No. 50, also all of Blocks
                      Nos. 51, 53, 55, 56, the south half of Block No. 48, all
                      of Block No. 7, Lots Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13
                      and 14 in Block No. 8; also Lots Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
June 14, 1864         7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 in Block No. 1; also Bridge
                      street;; also all of Nachusa street North of Sixth
                      Street; Quarry Street North of the Southwest Corner of
                      Lot No. 4 in Block number 8; all of Fifth Street west of
                      Centre Street; all of Eighth street west of Quarry
                      street; also that part of Eighth street situated between
                      Depot Street and Broadway, and that part of the alley
                      through block number 17 South of the Northeast corner of
                      Lot No. 5 in said Block number 17, and also the Street
                      leading from Broadway into the Depot ground of the Galena
                      & Chicago Union Railroad Company; also that part of
                      Broadway Street which may become unused in consequence of
                      a contemplated change of the street leading from Broadway
                      Street into said Depot grounds.
February 5, 1892      Lot 1 in Block 2 in Dement's Addition, all except the
                      portion necessary to make College Avenue 60 feet wide.
February 12, 1897     Lots and Blocks, adjoining College Avenue from South
                      Broadway to Chicago & Northwestern right-of- way.
February 12, 1897     Lot and Blocks, adjoining Jackson Avenue from South
                      Broadway to Chicago & Northwestern right-of-way.
                      Block 116 in Original Town of Dixon, all east of easterly
September 6, 1907     line of Ottawa Avenue and southerly prolongation of said
                      easterly line, and south of southerly line of Spruce
                      Street and westerly prolongation of said southerly line.
                      Lots, all land between Lot 2 in Block 2 in Dement's
June 1, 1920          Addition to the City of Dixon, and the easterly side of
                      College Avenue as now (1920) improved.
14                    Perry Place between 1st Street northerly to Central
                      Railroad right-of-way.
64                    Part of Railroad Street and Central Railroad in Original
                      Plat of Town.
99                    Easterly 25 feet of Nachusa Avenue.
100                   E.C Court Street in E.C. Parson's Industrial Addition.
114                   Part of Orchard Street between Depot Avenue and College
                      Avenue.
165                   Part of 4th Street which lies westerly of west line of
                      Monroe Avenue.
169                   Unnamed Alley in Steinman's Addition.
182                   Portion of South College Avenue in Hillcrest Addition.
197                   Alley in Belleview Addition.
199                   Portion of East Eighth Street.
225                   Portion of Dixon Avenue in Original Town of Dixon.
246                   Alley at North end lots eight and nine in Block No. 2.
263                   Part of Depot Avenue abutting west side of Dement's
                      Addition.
303                   That part of East 7th Street as shown on recorded Plat.
327                   A portion of Dixon Avenue south of south line of Chicago
                      Avenue and north of north line of Poplar Street.
407                   Noble and Weltz Streets.
                      A Portion of Hubbell Drive lying between said Hubbell
443                   Drive and Lots 6, 7, 8 and 9, and lying Northerly Fifty
                      Feet (50') from the Southerly line of Hubbell Drive.
444                   Sale of two (2) lots located on South Dement Avenue
                      between Third and Fourth Streets.
                      A part of North Hennepin Avenue which lies North of the
                      right of way of the Illinois Central Railroad Company and
                      South of an extension of the Southerly line of Lot
                      Nineteen (19), in Rogers, Moss and Sterling's Subdivision
                      of a part of the East Half (E 1/2) of the Northwest
447                   Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty two (32), Township
                      Twenty two (22) North, Range Nine (9) East of the Fourth
                      Principal Meridian in Lee County, Illinois; and the alley
                      which lies between Lots Five (5) and Six (6) and between
                      Lots Eighteen (18) and Nineteen (19) in said Rogers, Moss
                      and Sterling's Subdivision, be, and the same is hereby
                      vacated.
                      Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Block Forty-
                      two (42) and running Northerly along an extension of the
                      Easterly line of the block a distance of 15 feet; thence
                      Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of said Block
471                   42 to the East line of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of
                      Section Thirty-two (32); thence South along said East
                      line to the Northwest corner of said Block 42; and thence
                      Easterly along the Northerly line of said Block to the
                      place of beginning, be, and the same is hereby vacated.
                      That portion of the public alley known as Commercial
                      Alley lying between the westerly line of Lots Three (3)
                      and Eight (8) in Block Three (3) and the easterly line of
498                   Lots One (1) and Eight (8) in Block Three (3), (also
                      being the westerly line of Crawford Avenue) all in the
                      Original Town, now City, of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois,
                      be, and the same is hereby vacated to Dixon Warehouse Co.
                      Alley situated along the Northwesterly side of Lot Fifty-
                      Two (52) in Steinman's Addition to the City of Dixon,
513                   Illinois, from where the said alley, joins the
                      intersection of Assembly Place to the North line of said
                      Lot Fifty-two (52);
                      That alley running east from Logan Avenue to Douglas
524                   Avenue between Ninth Street and Factory Street, be, and
                      the same is hereby vacated.
                      That portion of Cedar Street lying between Walnut and
529                   Chestnut Streets in the City of Dixon be vacated with the
                      following restrictions:
                      A strip of land 30 feet in width lying 15 feet on either
                      side of the center line of that part of Cedar Street
568                   vacated by the City of Dixon Ordinance No. 529, dated
                      September 20, 1966, lying between the East line of
                      Chestnut and the West line of Walnut Avenue, all in the
                      City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
                      That a twenty foot alley extending from the West line of
530                   Custer Avenue to the East line of Hancock Avenue, and
                      lying between Lots 116 to 121, inclusive, and lots 145 to
                      150, inclusive, be, and the same is hereby vacated.
                      All that part of Flower Walk in Assembly Park
539                   Subdivision, City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, lying
                      northeasterly of a line described as follows:
                      Beginning at a point on the northerly line of said Flower
                      Walk, 67.7 feet northeasterly of the Southwest corner of
                      Lot 2 in said Assembly Park Subdivision; thence
                      Southeasterly perpendicular to the said north line of
                      Flower Walk, 40 feet to the southerly line of said Flower
                      Walk, being the point of termination.
                      Commencing at the Southwest corner of Lot Three (3) in
                      Block Ninety three (93) in said Original Town of Dixon;
                      thence Northeasterly along the Southerly line of said
                      block and on a direct extension Easterly of said line to
                      the Southwest corner of Block Ninety four (94) in said
                      Original Town of Dixon; thence Southeasterly on an
                      extension of the Easterly line of Dixon Avenue thirty
                      feet (30') to a point thirty feet (30') Northwesterly of
                      the Northwest corner of Block Ninety nine (99) in said
                      Original Town of Dixon; thence Southwesterly
                      perpendicular to the last described course thirty five
                      feet (35') to the center line of Dixon Avenue; thence
555                   Southeasterly on the said center line of Dixon Avenue to
                      the point of intersection with the Northerly line of
                      Poplar Street extended across Dixon Avenue; thence
                      Westerly on said extended Northerly line of Poplar Street
                      to the Southeast corner of Block One Hundred (100) in the
                      Original Town of Dixon; thence Northwesterly along the
                      Easterly line of said Block One Hundred (100) to the
                      Northeast corner thereof; thence Southwesterly along the
                      Northwesterly line of said Block One Hundred (100) to the
                      Southwest corner of said Block One Hundred (100); thence
                      Northwesterly to the Southwest corner of said Lot Three
                      (3) in Block Ninety three (93), being the point of
                      beginning, situated in the County of Lee in the State of
                      Illinois.
                      All that part of the alley in Block Two (2) in the
                      Original Town (now City) of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois,
581                   lying between the Easterly line of said Block Two (2) and
                      the Westerly line of the East One-half (E1/2) of Lot
                      Seven (7), in said Block Two (2) as extended Northerly.
                      That portion of North Hennepin Avenue lying between
                      Blocks 1 and 2 of Roselawn Addition and being that part
                      of North Hennepin Avenue lying between said Blocks and
                      extended Northwesterly from Rodesch Street a distance of
620                   approximately 300 feet and all that part of Rodesch
                      Street lying Westerly of North Hennepin Avenue a distance
                      of approximately 350 feet as shown by a plat designating
                      said streets to be vacated, attached to the petition for
                      said vacation and made apart of this Ordinance, be and
                      the same are hereby vacated.
                      That portion of River Street lying west of Sherman Avenue
647 amd. 650          and extended to the south bank of Rock River, a distance
                      of approximately thirty feet (30'), be vacated.
                      That particular portion of the North and South alley in
                      Block 13 of the West End Addition to the City of Dixon,
736                   Lee County, Illinois, lying between Lots 13, 14, 15 and
                      16 and comprising a space of approximately twenty feet in
                      width and one hundred feet (100') in length be and the
                      same is hereby vacated.
                      That part of North Hennepin Avenue which lies North of an
                      extension of the Southerly line of Lot 19 and South of a
                      line drawn between the Northwest corner of Lot 22 and the
737                   Northeast corner of Lot 23 all in Rogers, Moss and
                      Sterling's Subdivision of a part of the East Half (E1/2)
                      of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 32, Township
                      22 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian
                      in Lee County, Illinois.
                      A part of the North-South alley in Block Thirteen (13) in
                      West End Addition to the City of Dixon according to the
                      recorded Plat thereof described as follows: - Commencing
                      at the Northwest corner of Lot Seven (7) in said block
                      and running thence West to the Northeast corner of Lot
                      Eight (8) in said block; thence Southerly along the
742                   Easterly lines of Lots Eight (8), Nine (9) and Twelve
                      (12) to the Southeast corner of said Lot Twelve (12);
                      thence Easterly to the Southwest corner of Lot Eleven
                      (11) and thence Northerly along the Westerly lines of
                      Lots Eleven (11), Ten (10) and Seven (7) to the point of
                      beginning, said premises being situated in the County of
                      Lee in the State of Illinois.
                      ALSO:
                      The alley running from Sheridan Avenue generally Westerly
                      to Grace Avenue and generally to the South of Lots Number
                      One (1), Two (2), Three (3), Four (4) and Five (5) and
                      Six (6) and generally North of Lots Number Seven (7) and
                      Eight (8) in said Block Thirteen (13), West End Addition,
                      City of Dixon, County of Lee in the State of Illinois.
                      Commencing at the point of intersection of the center
                      line of Highland Avenue and the west boundary line of
                      premises in question, thence easterly two hundred eighty
                      five feet (285') across the land to a point twenty four
                      feet (24') from the southeasterly line of said land and
812                   two hundred sixty five feet (265') from the point where
                      said line produced intersects the center line of Peoria
                      Avenue; thence northeasterly two hundred sixty five feet
                      (265') to the center line of Peoria Avenue, thence
                      southeasterly along the said center line to the
                      southeasterly boundary line.
                      Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Lot 1 - thence
                      Northerly, extending the East line of said Block 61 a
                      distance of 9 feet; thence Westerly parallel to the North
                      line of said Lot 1, a distance of 100.58 feet to the
843                   Easterly right-of-way line of the Illinois Central
                      Railroad Company; thence Southerly along said right-of-
                      way line a distance of 9 feet to the North line of said
                      Lot 1; thence Easterly along said North line, to the
                      point of beginning.
                      Part of East First Street in the City of Dixon, Lee
                      County, Illinois, described as follows: Commencing at the
                      Northeast corner of Block 19 in the Original Town (now
                      City) of Dixon; thence Northeasterly along the Southerly
                      line of East First Street to the Northeast corner of
851                   Block 20 of said Original Town of Dixon; thence Northerly
                      along the Easterly end of First Street to the Northerly
                      line of said First Street; thence Westerly along the
                      Northerly line of said First Street to the Southeasterly
                      corner of Block 2 of said Original Town; thence Southerly
                      to the point of beginning.
                      Commencing at a point on the Easterly line of Lot Nine in
                      said Block 29 in the original Town of Dixon, 50 feet
                      Northerly of the Southwesterly corner of said Lot Nine
                      for the point of beginning; thence Northerly along the
862                   Westerly line of Lots 9, 8, 5 and 4 of said Block 29 a
                      distance of 140 feet; thence Westerly perpendicular to
                      the last described course 20 feet to the Easterly line of
                      lot 3 of said Block 29; thence Southerly along the
                      Easterly line of Lots 3, 6, 7 and 10 a distance of 140
                      feet; thence Easterly 20 feet to the point of beginning.
                      All of that part of the Alley in Block 3 of Johnson and
                      Avery's Addition to Roselawn in the City of Dixon, Lee
867                   County, Illinois, lying Easterly of a line drawn parallel
                      with and 20 feet Easterly from the West line of Lots 16
                      and 17 in said Block 3.
                      TRACT A: Beginning at the point of intersection of the
                      north line of First Street with the west line of Dixon
                      Avenue as extended northerly thence southerly on the said
875                   northerly extension of the west line of Dixon Avenue, 37
                      feet; thence northwesterly 52.33 feet to a point on the
                      said north line of First Street, 37 feet west of the said
                      point of beginning; thence east on the said north line of
                      First Street, 37 feet to the said point of beginning.
                      TRACT B: Beginning at the point of intersection of the
                      south line of First Street with the east line of Dixon
                      Avenue; thence westerly on the said south line of First
                      Street extended, 47 feet; thence southeasterly 66.47 feet
                      to a point on the said east line of Dixon Avenue, 47 feet
                      southerly of the said point of beginning; thence
                      northerly on the said east line of Dixon Avenue, 47 feet
                      to the said point of beginning.
                      All of the Alley as platted in Block 14 in West End
                      Addition to the City of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois more
                      particularly described as: the 15.5 foot alley in said
961                   Block 14 running east and west and lying south of and
                      adjacent to Lots 1 through 6 and the 20 foot alley in
                      said Block 14 running north and south and lying between
                      Lots 8, 9, 12, 13, 16 and 15, 14, 11, 10 and 7.
                      Commencing at the Northwest corner of Lot Five (5) in
                      Block Twenty (20) in West End Addition and running
                      Northerly to the Southwest corner of Lot Twenty-one (21)
                      in Block Nineteen (19) in said Addition; thence Easterly
                      along the South boundary lines of Lots Twenty-One (21),
                      Twenty (20), Nineteen (19), Eighteen (18), Seventeen (17)
1164 (amd. Ord. 1169) and Sixteen (16) to the Southeast corner of Lot Sixteen
                      (16) in said Block Nineteen (19); thence Southerly along
                      the extension of the Easterly line of Lot Sixteen (16) in
                      said Block Nineteen (19) to its intersection with the
                      North line of Lot Five (5) in Block Twenty (20) in said
                      Addition; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of
                      said Lot Five (5) to the place of beginning.
                      That part of Jefferson Avenue lying between Blocks 21 and
                      22 in the Original Town (now City) of Dixon, and between
1260                  the North line of East Second Street and the North line
                      of Section 4, Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the
                      Fourth Principal Meridian.
                      That part of Boyd Street lying between the Westerly line
1309                  of North Peoria Avenue and the Easterly line of Lots 30
                      and 50 in E.C. Parsons Blackhawk Addition to the City of
                      Dixon, Lee County, Illinois.
                      A triangular parcel of land in Depot Avenue lying west of
                      the West line of that part of Block Eighteen in Dement's
1314                  addition to the City of Dixon, said subdivision being
                      part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 21,
                      North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Lee
                      County, Illinois more particularly described as follows:
                      Beginning at the Southwest corner of Lot 5 in said Block
                      Eighteen of Dement's addition; thence southerly on the
                      West line of said Block Eighteen, said line having an
                      assumed bearing of South 0 degrees 52 minutes 38 seconds
                      west, a distance of 69.74 feet (69.6 feet, Deed) to a
                      point; thence northerly on a line having a bearing of
                      North 8 degrees 19 minutes 37 seconds west, a distance of
                      67.05 feet to a point in the westerly extension of the
                      South line of said Lot 5; thence easterly on said
                      westerly extension of the South line of Lot 5, said line
                      having a bearing of North 72 degrees 30 minutes 42
                      seconds, east, a distance of 11.30 feet to the point of
                      beginning, containing 374 square feet (0.009 acre), more
                      or less.
                      The Southerly 20 feet of the Patrick's Court which
                      borders Lots 3 through 8 in S.G. Patrick's Subdivision of
                      the North Half of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast
1348                  Quarter of the Southeast Quarter in Section 5, in
                      Township 21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth P.M.,
                      situated in the County of Lee, State of Illinois,
                      according to the plat of said subdivision recorded in the
                      Recorder's Office of Lee County, Illinois.
                      Nachusa Avenue: A triangular parcel of land in Nachusa
                      Avenue lying easterly of the east line of that part of
                      Block Twenty-three in Dement's Addition to the City of
1358                  Dixon, said Subdivision being a part of the Southeast
                      Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township
                      21 North, Range 9 East of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
                      Lee County, Illinois, more particularly described as
                      follows:
                      Beginning at the point of the intersection of the
                      Easterly Line of Block 23 of Dement's Addition to the
                      City of Dixon with the Northerly Right-of-Way Line of the
                      Chicago and North Western Railway; thence Northerly on
                      said Easterly Line of Block 23, a distance of 59.4 feet,
                      more or less, to the Northeasterly Corner of said Block
                      23; thence Easterly on an Easterly extension of the
                      Northerly Line of said Block 23, a distance of 72.1 feet,
                      more or less, to a point in said Northerly Railway Right-
                      of-Way Line; thence Southwesterly on said Northerly
                      Railway Right-of- Way Line to the point of beginning.
1378                  An ordinance vacating a portion of an alley located
                      adjacent to 1822 Clark Street, Dixon, Illinois.
1408                  An ordinance vacating a portion of 9th Street between
                      Madison Avenue on the East and Monroe Avenue on the west.
                      An ordinance vacating all of the public alleys located in
1447                  Block 16 of the Original Town, now City of Dixon, Lee
                      County, Illinois.
1475                  An ordinance vacating a portion of McKenney Street lying
                      west of Galena Avenue, Dixon, Illinois.
1487                  An ordinance vacating a portion of an alley pursuant to
                      the petition of Dixon National Bank Trust #1232.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of First Street and a
1531                  portion of Dixon Avenue pursuant to the petition of
                      Katherine Shaw Bethea Hospital.
1562                  An ordinance vacating a portion of Dement Avenue pursuant
                      to the petition of Robert and Cynthia Fassler.
1601                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the alley pursuant to
                      the petition of Charles Crabtree.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Eighth Street pursuant
1698                  to the petition of Terry Stephanich, Debra Stephanich and
                      Charles L. Freed.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the alley in Maple
1762                  Park addition pursuant to the petition of Dixon Habitat
                      for Humanity, Inc.
1821                  An ordinance vacating a portion of 1023 Sinnissippi
                      pursuant to the petition of James and Jacquelyn Larson.
1870                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the alley pursuant to
                      the petition of Katherine Shaw Bethea Hospital.
1893                  An ordinance vacating a portion of 1226 7th Street
                      pursuant to the petition of Dixonweb Printing Company.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of 1017 Sinnissippi
2061                  pursuant to the petition of Martin H. Swegle and Susan A.
                      Swegle.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of an alley pursuant to
2085                  the petition of Richard G. Wienman, not individually but
                      as trustee of the Harry Wienman residuary trust.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of an alley lying east of
2119                  Sheridan Avenue and north of Ninth Street pursuant to the
                      petition of Dixon Habitat for Humanity, Inc.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Lincoln Statue Drive
2132                  pursuant to the petition of the department of
                      transportation, state of Illinois.
2144                  An ordinance vacating a portion of Sherman Avenue and
                      West Third Street pursuant to the petition of Doris Long.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of an alley pursuant to
2172                  the petition of Lloyd Heaton, Irene Chandler and Bev
                      Adamson.
2285                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the alley pursuant to
                      the petition of Eric Brauman and Karri Brauman.
2308                  An ordinance vacating the alley at 409 Sheridan Avenue
                      pursuant to the petition of Robert and Nell Barker.
                      An ordinance amending ordinance 2285, regarding vacating
2395                  a portion of the alley pursuant to the petition of Eric
                      Brauman and Karri Brauman.
                      An ordinance vacating the alley contiguous to 722 East
2407                  Second Street pursuant to the petition of Michael L.
                      Mills.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Whatever Way pursuant
2433                  to the petition of Charles W. Willett, Mary S. Willett,
                      Kristi A. Reiss and Mark R. Reiss.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Van Epps Avenue
2434                  pursuant to the petition of Timothy F. O'Sullivan and
                      Virginia J. O'Sullivan.
2441                  An ordinance vacating a portion of North Ottawa Avenue
                      pursuant to the petition of the Dixon park district.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Steinmann Street
2447                  pursuant to the petition of Tom and Luann Bennett and
                      James and Kelly Eastman.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Woodlawn Street
2450                  pursuant to the petition of Jeremy T. Genz and Teri L.
                      Genz and Willie Robertson.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Canal Street and a
2531                  portion of Douglas Avenue pursuant to the petition of
                      River Shore Builders, Inc.
2568                  An ordinance vacating a public alley pursuant to the
                      petition of American Storage, LLC.
2587                  An ordinance vacating portions of a public alley in block
                      number 9 in the west end addition to the city of Dixon.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
2710                  pursuant to the request of David W. Bowers and Derri G.
                      Bowers.
2712                  An ordinance amending ordinance 2710 vacating a portion
                      of a public alley.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Crawford Avenue
2729                  pursuant to the petition of Katherine Shaw Bethea
                      Hospital.
2747                  An ordinance amending ordinance 2729 vacating a portion
                      of Crawford Avenue.
2808                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
                      pursuant to the petition of Timothy Grove.
2831                  An ordinance vacating a portion of Harrison Avenue
                      pursuant to the request of Paula Portner.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
                      pursuant to the petition of Willey Realty Trust no. 1 and
2893                  Dixon Habitat For Humanity, Inc.2924An ordinance vacating
                      unused right of way pursuant to the request of John W.
                      Commons and Patsy Ann Commons.
2924                  An ordinance vacating unused right of way pursuant to the
                      request of John W. Commons and Patsy Ann Commons.
2945                  An ordinance vacating unused public alley pursuant to the
                      request of Phillip MacRunnels.
3043                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
                      pursuant to the request of Stanley H. Hoffman.
3044                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
                      pursuant to the request of Gary M. Howell.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
3047                  pursuant to the request of Kendal L. Moser and Ruby E.
                      Moser.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
3048                  pursuant to the request of Russell L. Castle and Judith
                      M. Castle.
3049                  An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
                      pursuant to the request of Carol Beardin.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
3050                  pursuant to the request of Steven J. Acree and Connie J.
                      Acree.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley
3051                  pursuant to the request of Frank Howell, Jr. and Gary M.
                      Howell.
3306                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley pursuant
                      to the request of Melissa K. Feit
3307                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley pursuant
                      to the request of Vicki L. Gugerty
3325                  Ordinance vacating a portion of Brinton Avenue pursuant
                      to the request of Edgewater Place Condominium Association
                      Ordinance vacating a portion of the public right-of-way
3390                  commonly known as Marclare Street pursuant to the request
                      of Kreider Services, Incorporated
3434                  Ordinance vacating a portion of N. Dement Avenue pursuant
                      to the request of Roy Tylkowski and Cassie Tylkowski
3451                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley to
                      Brandon M. Bonnette.
3452                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley to
                      Christina M. Saville.
3453                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley to Craig
                      W. Miller.
3454                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley to
                      Patricia J. Lappin.
3455                  Ordinance vacating a portion of the public alley to
                      Zachary Eschen and Ashley Kubatzke.
 
APPENDIX C
SPECIAL USES
Ord. No.
Ord.
No.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 621 E.
1798 McKenney pursuant to the petition of Teresa R. Hagenbuch and Curtis
     Hagenbuch.
1799 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 618 S. Peoria
     Ave. pursuant to the petition of Roger L. Hoyle and Lucile M. Hoyle.
1800 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 842 N.
     Brinton pursuant to the petition of Michael C. and Theresa C. Allen.
1801 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 805 6th Ave.
     pursuant to the petition of Janet L. Hoyle and Roger W. Hoyle.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 915 Palmyra
1802 Avenue pursuant to the petition of Randall R. Collins and Deborah L.
     Collins.
1803 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 215
     Lincolnway pursuant to the petition of Mark and Janine Eykamp.
1804 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 505 1st Ave.
     pursuant to the petition of Jody L. Spangler and Ricky J. Spangler.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 211 E. 7th
1805 pursuant to the petition of Mary Mahan Deatherage and Gregory E.
     Deatherage.
1806 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 923 Highland
     Ave. pursuant to the petition of Dennis G. McCoy and Donna M. McCoy.
1807 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 317 N.
     Hennepin Avenue pursuant to the petition of John Wagner and Sally Wagner.
1820 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 223 Artesian
     Place pursuant to the petition of Christian D. Dempsey.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a restaurant at 737 North Galena
1847 Avenue pursuant to the petition of Lagoon Saloon, Ltd. and WMCR
     Acquisitions, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 629 North
1850 Jefferson pursuant to the petition of Bradley S. Masters and Nancy R.
     Masters.
1875 An ordinance authorizing special use for a day care home at 224 S. Dement
     Avenue pursuant to the petition of Robert Shaner and Angela Lance.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a fast food restaurant at the
1876 south west corner of Fourth Avenue and Galena Avenue pursuant to the
     petition of Dr. Donald G. Rice and Reishus Management, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for expansion of property at 1101
1894 Middle Road pursuant to the petition of Open Sesame Child Care Center,
     Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for an automobile sales and service
1897 business at 320 S. Galena Avenue pursuant to the petition of Laverne and
     Norma Blosser.
     An ordinance amending Ordinance 1894, authorizing special use for
1910 expansion of 1101 Middle Road pursuant to petition of Open Sesame Child
     Care Center, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a family amusement center at
1923 1258 N. Galena Avenue pursuant to the petition of Capitol Dairy Queen,
     Inc. and It's Fun LLC.
1946 An ordinance authorizing special use for 1820 W. First Street pursuant to
     the petition of Dean R. Sheaffer and Jane A. Sheaffer.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a food restaurant at 1312 N.
1960 Galena Avenue pursuant to the petition of Rubloff- Dixon, L.P. and Thomas
     Vilet.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a bed and breakfast
1985 establishment at 204 E. Third Street pursuant to the petition of Lyn
     Miliano and Michael Vandeveire.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a nursing home on 1556 Freedom
1993 Walk pursuant to the petition of Amcore Bank as trustee of trust no. 829,
     George Balster and Beverly Balster.
2039 An ordinance authorizing special use for self-service storage facilities
     on lot 11 in Hawley Place pursuant to the petition of Darlene M. Johnson.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for two self-service storage
2069 facilities at 212 Van Buren Avenue pursuant to the petition of William J.
     Dempsey, Jr. and Sally A. Dempsey.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for an arcade at 222 North Peoria
2200 Avenue, Dixon, Illinois pursuant to the petition of Trahraeg Holding
     Corp., Amcore Investment Group Trust #1808 and Video Villager, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for allowing the operation of a
2212 miniwarehouse at 160 Keul Road pursuant to the petition of William E.
     Miller and Dixie L. Miller.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for construction of a 200'
     telecommunication tower and microwave shelter at the southwest corner of
2224 grass strip in the IDOT parking lot bounded by College Avenue, 8th Street
     and 9th Street pursuant to the petition of Scientech, Inc., on behalf of
     Illinois department of transportation.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for an automobile service station at
2249 111 East Everett Street pursuant to the petition of Tri Star Marketing,
     Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for carpentry equipment and material
2269 storage and occasional shop work at 1107 Eastern Avenue pursuant to the
     petition of Ricky A. Helfrich, Marvin B. Hogenson and John B. Hogenson.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a motor vehicle service station
     and ancillary services at the southwest corner of Bloody Gulch Road and
2275 South Galena Avenue (Route 26) pursuant to the petition of the First
     National Bank in Amboy, as trustee under trust agreement dated 12-2-95
     known as trust no. 40054-4 (the "trustee"), and D N D Travel Plaza,
     L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability company ("D n D").
     An ordinance authorizing special use for temporary use for an emergency
2291 shelter/mission at 111 N. Ottawa Avenue pursuant to the petition of the
     Dixon family YMCA.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for permitting a 16-bed assisted
2293 living facility for the elderly at 501 Country Side Lane pursuant to the
     petition of Avonlea Cottage L.L.C. (Richard Nicholls, agent).
2334 An ordinance authorizing special use for Culver's Restaurant, 1317 North
     Galena Avenue, pursuant to the petition of WRC Development, Inc.
2369 An ordinance authorizing special use for 1912 Lowell Park Road pursuant
     to the petition of Sauk Valley Treats.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a religious center, 202 East
2388 Fellows, pursuant to the petition of the Sauk Valley Islamic
     organization.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a daycare center, 1033 Franklin
2419 Grove Road, pursuant to the petition of Community State Bank of Rock
     Falls and Immanuel Lutheran Church of Dixon.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for public safety telecommunication
2437 tower, 316 South Hennepin Avenue, pursuant to the petition of Lee County
     emergency telephone system board.
     An ordinance authorizing special use to construct a public utility
2459 facility at 711 Fourth Avenue, pursuant to the petition of Gallatin River
     Communications.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a child daycare home, at 521
2461 Highland Avenue, pursuant to the petition of Gary L. Snyder, Tina Snyder
     and Heather Snyder.
2494 An ordinance authorizing special use for a mobile home park at 1100
     Carondolet Road, pursuant to the petition of Fred Ray.
2502 An ordinance authorizing special use for a commercial greenhouse at 1228
     W. Fourth Street pursuant to the petition of Terry Nichols.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for a two hundred fifty foot (250')
2506 lattice tower at 624 S. Depot Avenue pursuant to the petition of
     Consolidated Grain and Barge Co.
2510 An ordinance authorizing special use for a mobile home park at 1351
     Chicago Avenue pursuant to the petition of Terry Helt.
2530 An ordinance authorizing special use for a planned unit development at 66
     Logan Avenue pursuant to the petition of River Shore Builders, Inc.
2550 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a group home
     for the handicapped pursuant to the petition of Kreider Services, Inc.
2559 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a self-service
     storage facility pursuant to the petition of American Storage, LLC.
2604 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a group home
     for the handicapped pursuant to the petition of Kreider Services, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for self-service storage facilities,
2627 Johnson's commercial resubdivision no. 1 of Hawley Place Subdivision
     pursuant to the petition of Darlene M. Johnson, et al.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for development as an R-3, planned
2631 unit development with townhomes pursuant to title 6, chapter 13, section
     21 of the Dixon City Code.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for asphalt manufacturing or
2640 refining pursuant to title 6, chapter 11, section 3 of the Dixon City
     Code.
     An ordinance authorizing a special use for the construction of an
2655 addition to an existing commercial building for the purpose of material
     storage, carpentry equipment and occasional shop work pursuant to the
     petition of Kenneth Ross Bovey.
2667 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a restaurant
     pursuant to the petition of Eric Forman.
2689 An ordinance authorizing special use for the construction of a four-
     family dwelling pursuant to the petition of EEB Properties, LLC.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for the construction and operation
2697 of mini-storage warehouse units pursuant to the petition of Lee County
     Industrial Development Association and Daniel Johns.
2706 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a daycare home
     pursuant to the petition of Nathan and Sara Rodehaver.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for property to be used for business
2717 and professional offices pursuant to the petition of Dark Land Trust #1
     and Turning Point Community Church.
2754 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a restaurant
     pursuant to the petition of J.D. Wesley, Inc., and Orval L. Gearhart, Jr.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for property to be used for a
2801 massage therapy and wellness center and for professional offices pursuant
     to the petition of Community State Bank of Rock Falls - Dixon and Rebecca
     Bradley.
2805 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a childcare
     center pursuant to the petition of New Life.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for an emergency shelter/mission for
2807 homeless individuals pursuant to the petition of Ryan T. Atherton and
     Dixon PADS Shelter.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for the installation of a radio
2819 transmission tower and receive antenna for the purpose of installing a
     translator station promoting and broadcasting Catholic radio programming
     pursuant to the petition of St. Anne's Church Of Dixon.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for property to be used for a real
2842 estate brokerage office pursuant to the petition of David E. Jackson,
     Anita G. Jackson, Timothy Crawford and Kirsten Crawford.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a dance school
2844 pursuant to the petition of Matthew Moeller and Cheryl Moeller DBA Center
     Stage Dance Studio.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for an office and storage facility
2890 for an organization qualified under the Internal Revenue Code §501(c)(3)
     that provides housing opportunities pursuant to the petition of Sherman
     Restaurant Group, Inc., and Habitat for Humanity, Inc.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for property to be used for
2896 professional healthcare offices pursuant to the petition of Community
     State Bank of Rock Falls.
2898 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a private
     recreation business pursuant to the petition of Connie Spencer.
2920 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of an animal
     control facility pursuant to the petition of Lee County.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of a shop for an
2927 electrical contracting business pursuant to the petition of Marvin B.
     Hogenson and Steven Dilger.
2963 An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of an animal
     control facility pursuant to the petition of Lee County and Dan Johns.
     An ordinance authorizing special use for the operation of any emergency
     shelter/mission for homeless women and children pursuant to the petition
3054 of Dixon PADS Shelter.3118An ordinance authorizing a special use for a
     fast food restaurant pursuant to the petitioning of Heartland Beef
     Incorporated.
3118 An ordinance authorizing a special use for a fast food restaurant
     pursuant to the petitioning of Heartland Beef Incorporated.
3207 An ordinance authorizing a special use for a self-service storage
     facility pursuant to the petition of Minify Self Storage Dixon, LLC.
3214 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of
     Kreider Services, Inc.
3236 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of Asif
     Rajabali
3243 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of GMX
     Real Estate Group
3280 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of
     Goodfellows of Lee County
3335 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of USCOC
     of Central Illinois, LLC on behalf of Randy Stage
3362 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of
     replays Arcade LLC
3363 an ordinance authorizing a special use purusant to the petition of
     Casey's Retail Company
3391 An ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of Dixon
     Family YMCA
3432 Ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of Rick
     McQuality and Kyle McQuality
3433 Ordinance authorizing a special use pursuant to the petition of Castle
     Hill Holdings LLC
 
 
