CITY CODE
of
EAST DUBUQUE, ILLINOIS
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 25-0810, passed August 4, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of East Dubuque, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-0810, passed August 4, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of East Dubuque. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the EAST DUBUQUE CITY CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2001 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2001 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2001 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2001 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2001 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2001 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2001 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of East Dubuque, county of Jo Daviess, state of Illinois.
CODE: The city code of the city of East Dubuque.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of East
Dubuque.
COUNTY: The county of Jo Daviess, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
East Dubuque".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
East Dubuque".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2001 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY 1
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Minimum Bail For Violation Of City Ordinances
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor Offenses: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this code shall be fined in accordance to the amended fine schedule in
Ordinance No. 21-0108, 21-0109, 21-0110 and in an amount not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine,
penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for
each offense may include a requirement that the offending party perform some
reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter
in public parks or upon public highways or performing maintenance of public
facilities. A violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 11-0516, 5-16-2021, Ord. 21-
0807, 8-2-2021)
1-4-2: MINIMUM BAIL FOR VIOLATION OF CITY ORDINANCES 1 :
Each and every violation of any ordinance which is enforced by the city shall
be subject to a minimal bail of not less than one hundred twenty dollars
($120.00) except in cases where the minimum fine is less than one hundred
twenty dollars ($120.00). In such case the bond shall be equivalent to the
minimum fine established by that section. (Ord. 11-0516, 5-16-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 7-10-1 of this code.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2001 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2001
Code)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-1-1: Elected Officials; Term Of Office
2-1-2: Meetings
2-1-3: Remote Participation
2-1-4: Transcription Of Meeting Minutes; Tape Recordings
2-1-5: Salaries
2-1-6: Oath And Bond
2-1-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS; TERM OF OFFICE:
There shall be six (6) Council Members elected, two (2) per ward, to serve on
the City Council. Each Council Member shall serve for a four (4) year term
until their successor is elected and qualified. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 22-035,
4-11-2022)
2-1-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the City Council shall
consist of two (2) regular meetings each month on the first and third Mondays
of each month at the City Hall in the City commencing at six o'clock (6:00)
P.M.
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, City Manager, or by any
two (2) Council Members by written request or notice being filed with the City
Clerk at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time specified for such
meeting.
      2.   At least forty-eight (48) hours' written notice of such special
meeting shall be given by the Clerk, which notice shall specify the time and
purpose of such meeting and shall be delivered to each Council Member
personally, if such can be found, and if such Council Member cannot be found,
then by leaving a copy of such notice at the home of such Council Member in the
presence of an adult member of the family of the Council Member.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the
public, except executive sessions thereof, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/1 et seq. (Ord. 09-0906, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 18-1111, 11-5-2018;
2001 Code; Ord. 22-035, 4-11-2022)
2-1-3: REMOTE PARTICIPATION:
   A.   Policy Statement: It is the policy of the City of East Dubuque that a
member of any group associated with the City which is subject to the Open
Meetings Act (covered group) may attend and participate in any open or closed
meeting of that covered group from a remote location via telephone, video, or
internet communication, provided that such attendance and participation is in
compliance with this policy and any other applicable laws.
   B.   Prerequisites: A member of the covered group of the City shall be
provided the opportunity to attend an open and/or closed meeting from a remote
location, if the member meets the three (3) following conditions and a majority
of a quorum of the covered body votes to approve the remote attendance:
      1.   The member must notify the Clerk of the covered body at least
twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical;
      2.   The member must meet one of three (3) reasons described herein why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting, including either:
         a.   That the member cannot attend because of a personal illness,
injury, or disability;
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or due to
the business of the City; or
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family emergency or other
emergency
      3.   A Quorum of the covered body must be physically present at the
meeting site.
   C.   Voting Procedures: After roll call, a vote of covered body shall be
taken, considering the prerequisites set forth in subsection (b) above, on
whether or not to allow an off-site member to participate remotely. All of the
members physically present are permitted to vote on whether remote
participation will be allowed.
   D.   Quorum and Vote Required: A quorum must be established by members
physically present at any meeting before it can be considered whether to allow
a member to participate in the meeting remotely. A vote of a majority of a
quorum shall be necessary to decide the issue. For the meeting to continue,
there shall always need to be a quorum physically present.
   E.   Minutes: The member participating remotely shall be considered an off-
site participant and shall be counted as present by remote means for that
meeting, if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes will
specifically reflect whether each member is physically present or present by
remote means. The specific remote means shall be described within the minutes.
   F.   Rights of Remote Member: The member permitted to participate remotely
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures, as amended. The remote member shall
be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name
of any remote member shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the secretary or clerk and placed in the minutes.
   G.   Meetings: The term meeting as used herein refers to any gathering,
whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone call, electronic
means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, text
messaging, and instant messaging), or other means of contemporary interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of the public body held
for the purpose of discussing public business.
   H.   Costs: A member participating remotely via telephone shall be
reimbursed for the documented cost directly related to the remote participation
upon a valid reimbursement request. All costs associated with the remote
participation must be approved by the city in advance, unless the advance
request is impractical. (Ord. 23-0814, 8-21-2023)
2-1-4: TRANSCRIPTION OF MEETING MINUTES; TAPE RECORDINGS:
The City Council hereby adopts the policies titled procedures for transcription
of meeting minutes and procedures for the use of tape recordings at City
meetings, as follows:
   A.   Written Minutes Required: Written minutes of all meetings, open or
closed, will be maintained by the City Council and each board, commission or
committee appointed by the City Council. Minutes of all public bodies will be
taken by the City Clerk or, in the absence of the City Clerk, by a person
delegated the responsibility by the City Manager. The minutes shall include the
following:
      1.   The date, time, and place of the meeting.
      2.   The members of the public body recorded as either present or absent;
and
      3.   A summary of discussion on all matters proposed, deliberated, or
decided by the members of the public body.
      4.   A record of any votes taken at the meeting.
   B.   Completion Of Minutes; Availability to Public: The minutes of meetings
open to the public shall be available for public inspection within seven (7)
days of the approval of such minutes by the public body.
   C.   Contents:
      1.   Minutes shall generally consist of a record of what took place at
the meeting. They should contain enough information to provide an adequate,
official record of the proceedings. The City Clerk of the meeting shall attempt
to prepare minutes in such a manner that anyone reading them a year or more in
the future will understand the substance of the items discussed and the actions
taken.
      2.   Speeches, discussion, or statements shall not be copied into the
minutes except in the following instances:
         a.   Where Council or rules of the public body provide for statements
explaining the vote.
         b.   Where Council may so order in exceptional cases.
         c.   Where such information is necessary to understand what took place
at the meeting.
         d.   Important documents discussed in the minutes may be appended to
them.
   D.   Closed Session Minutes:
      1.   Minutes of the closed session (executive session) will be a verbatim
record in the form of an audio or video recording. The record will reflect:
         a.   The date, time, and place of the meeting.
         b.   The members of the public body recorded as either present or
absent.
         c.   A summary of discussion on all matters proposed, deliberated, or
decided by the members of the public body.
         d.   At the end of the closed session, a member will move for
adjournment, including the time.
      2.   The City Clerk or their designee will attend all closed sessions of
the City Council and record the minutes thereof. The minutes must contain a
complete, truthful, and legal record of the proceedings of the executive
session.
   E.   Closed Session Confidentiality: From time to time, in accordance with
the Illinois Open meetings Act, the City council may enter into closed session.
In such case, any subject matter committed to closed session shall be
confidential. No disclosure of any discussion held, or any decision made in
closed session shall be made until publicized by announcement, publication, or
official action by or at the direction of the City Council. A violation of this
section by any member of the City Council or city employee shall be considered
a breach of the member, officer, or employee’s fiduciary duty to the city. Any
individual found by the City Council to be in violation of this section may
either be terminated, disciplined, censured, or reported to the Jo Daviess
State’s Attorney for consideration of misconduct charges under the Illinois
Criminal Code or the Illinois Municipal Code.
   F.   Procedures For Use of Tape Recordings:
      1.   The words “City Council” refer to the East Dubuque City Council as
well as all boards, commissions or committees duly appointed by the City
Council.
      2.   The official record of all City Council meetings is the written
record as prepared by the City Clerk and as approved by the City Council in
open meeting.
      3.   The official minutes of all City Council meetings are prepared from
the notes taken by the City Clerk at the open meeting of the duly elected body.
      4.   Tape recordings of the City Council meeting may be used to provide a
means to ensure that the written minutes, prepared from the notes and other
material received at the meeting, are complete.
      5.   Any tapes used in the preparation of the Council minutes will be
retained until the minutes of the meeting are approved by the City Council.
Once the minutes are approved, the tapes will be erased.
      6.   The verbatim recording of executive session may be destroyed no less
than eighteen (18) months after the completion of the meeting recorded, but
only after:
         a.   The public body approves the destruction of a particular
recording; and
         b.   The public body approves minutes of the closed meeting that meet
the written minutes requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
      7.   Prior to the approval of the written minutes by the City Council,
any person who wishes to review the tape recording of the meeting can do so
under procedures established by the City Council.
      8.   Any person wishing to record a meeting of the City Council by
mechanical means may do so under procedures established by the City Council.
(Ord. 04-0108, 1-5-2004; amd. Ord. 09-0906, 9-8-2009; Ord. 22-035, 4-11-2022;
Ord. 23-0814, 8-21-2023)
2-1-5: SALARIES:
On May 1, 2023, and thereafter, the Council Members of the City shall receive
sixty-five dollars ($65.00) for each City Council meeting they attend and
thirty dollars ($30.00) for each special meeting they attend, and thirty
dollars ($30.00) for each committee meeting they are assigned to and attend, to
be paid in monthly installments. (Ord. 18-1111, 11-5-2018; amd. Ord. 22-035, 4-
11-2022; Ord. 23-0814, 8-21-2023)
2-1-6: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of this office, the Council Member shall
subscribe to the required oath and shall execute a bond, in such amount and
with such sureties as may be required by the City Council, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of this office. (Ord. 09-0906, 9-8-2009;
amd. Ord. 22-035, 4-11-2022; Ord. 23-0814, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 2
MAYOR
SECTION:
2-2-1: Elected Official
2-2-2: Oath And Bond
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Salary
2-2-5: Mayor's Signature
2-2-1: ELECTED OFFICIAL:
The Mayor of the City shall be elected for a four ( 4) year term and shall
serve until their successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(2001 Code; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-2-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of their office, the mayor shall subscribe to
the required oath and shall execute a bond in the amount and with such sureties
as may be required by the City Council, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of their office. (Ord. 09-0907, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor shall have the powers and duties as provided by statute.
The mayor shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be charged
with the administration and appropriate provisions of this Act 1  and of such
ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted.
However, the Mayor may appoint a person or persons to assist them in the
exercise of the powers and performance of the duties herein provided for such
Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The City Council is authorized to fix and pay compensation to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, as the case may be, one hundred twenty-five dollars
($125.00) per month, and compensation to such deputies, assistants or employees
as may be deemed necessary for the proper performance of the duties vested in
them. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 18-1112, 11-5-2018; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
 
Notes
1    ILCS 235 5/4 et al.
2-2-4: SALARY:
On May 1, 2023, and thereafter, the Mayor of the City shall receive three
thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00) annually, to be paid in monthly
installments. (Ord. 09-0907, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-2-5: MAYOR'S SIGNATURE:
The mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any written
instrument that requires the mayor's signature. The mayor must send written
notice of this designation to the Council, stating a) the name of the person
selected and b) what instrument the person will have authority to sign. When
the signature of the mayor is placed on a written instrument at the direction
of the mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all respects, shall be
as binding on the City as if signed by the mayor in person. (Ord. 09-0907, 9-8-
2009; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 3
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
2-3-1: Elected Official
2-3-2: Term Of Office; Vacancy
2-3-3: Duties
2-3-4: Work Time; Compensation
2-3-5: Deputy Clerk
2-3-6: Oath And Bond
2-3-1: ELECTED OFFICIAL:
The Office of City Clerk is an elected position. (Ord., 1-18-1999; amd. Ord.
22-0325. 4-11-2022)
2-3-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
The City Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until
his/her successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute 1 . The
mayor, upon a vacancy in the Office of City Clerk, shall bring forth a
qualified and experienced appointee for consideration and approval by the City
Council as required by statute 2 . (Ord., 1-18-1999; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 22-
0325. 4-11-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5.
2-3-3: DUTIES:
The City Clerk shall perform the duties and assignments as instructed by the
City Manager, Mayor and/or City Council along with all duties required by
Illinois State Statute 1  or ordinances. The City Clerk is required to attend
all meetings of the City Council and to keep a full journal of the proceedings.
Also to assist, prepare and distribute Council agenda packets. The City Clerk
must also retain all documents filed in the Clerk’s Office concerning
activities of the Municipality. The City Clerk is custodian of all papers or
documents pertaining to the Municipality. All officers are required to file an
oath upon their election or appointment, retained by the City Clerk. The City
Clerk is required to publish the annual report of the Treasurer. All requests
for access to the records will be handled by the City Clerk. The City Clerk is
an election official who receives all candidate nomination petitions and
certifies them to the County Clerk and is a member of the Canvassing Board for
Municipal Elections.
The City Clerk is also the Clerk for the Zoning Board of Appeals, subsection
15-12-2D1b of this Code.
While the City Clerk enjoys certain powers and responsibilities as set forth
herein, the City Clerk may also serve, concurrent and also, along with their
role as City Clerk, as City Treasurer if so approved by the City Council. Any
activities by the City Clerk undertaken in fulfillment of the role of City
Treasurer as described in Title 2, Chapter 4-3 shall be under the direct
supervision of the City Manager.
(Ord. 09-0908, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 18-1113, 11-5-2018; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022;
Ord. 24-0618, 6-17-2024)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90.
2-3-4: WORK TIME; COMPENSATION:
The City Clerk shall work as necessary and shall receive a monthly wage of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) to be paid in monthly installments.
On May 1, 2023, and thereafter the City Clerk shall receive thirty dollars
($30.00) for each special meeting they attend, and thirty dollars ($30.00) for
each Zoning Board meeting they attend, to be paid in monthly installments.
(Ord. 09-0908, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 18-1113, 11-5-2018; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-3-5: DEPUTY CLERK:
The City Clerk may appoint, under the consent and approval of the City Council,
a deputy who, in the absence of the Clerk, in case of sickness or otherwise,
shall be empowered to perform all the duties of the City Clerk. (Ord., 1-18-
1999; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-3-6: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of this office, the City Clerk shall subscribe
to the required oath and shall execute a bond and with such sureties as may be
required by the City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of their office. The City shall pay the premium of the bond. (Ord. 09-
0908, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 4
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
2-4-1: City Manager
2-4-2: City Attorney
2-4-3: City Treasurer
2-4-4: City Collector (Reserved)
2-4-5: City Engineer (Reserved)
2-4-6: Administrative Assistant
2-4-7: Assistant City Manager
2-4-1: CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the Office of City Manager, an
administrative office of the City.
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications; Restrictions: The City Manager shall be
appointed by the City Council and solely on the basis of their executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to their actual experience
in or their knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of their
office hereinafter set forth, and such requirements and qualifications are
hereby declared to be of a nature as to require technical training or
knowledge.
   C.   Term Of Office; Resignation or Removal: The term of office of the City
Manager shall be determined by the City Council. The City Manager may resign
from their office or may be removed therefrom only in such manner as is
provided by the Statutes of the State pertaining to the resignation or the
removal of the appointed officers.
   D.   Bond And Oath:
      1.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of their office, the City
Manager shall furnish a surety bond in the amount to be approved by the City
Council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of their
duties. The City shall pay the premium of the bond.
      2.   Oath of Office: Before entering upon the duties of their office, the
City Manager shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the Statutes of
the State in such case provided.
   E.   Compensation: The City Manager shall receive compensation in such
amount and manner as the Council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or
resolution.
   F.   Powers And Duties with Reference to Fiscal Matters: The City Manager
shall have custody and control of all documents, including debts, mortgages,
leases, contracts, judgment orders, notes, bonds, and evidence of indebtedness
belonging to the City except such as are directed by law or ordinances to be
deposited elsewhere. They shall have supervision of the issuance and sale of
all bonds, warrants and obligations, and they shall have supervision over the
accounting work of the City. Specifically, but not in limitation of the above,
they shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   It becomes the responsibility of the Budget Officer to complete an
annual budget. The annual budget must be adopted before the beginning of the
fiscal year to which it applies.
         a.   Before its passage, the Municipality must make the tentative
budget available for public inspection for at least ten (10) days.
         b.   Not less than one week after the budget has been made available
for public inspection and prior to final action on the budget, the Municipality
must hold a public hearing.
         c.   Notice of the hearing must be published at least one week prior
to the date the hearing is scheduled in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the Municipality.
         d.   After the hearing is concluded, the budget may be further revised
and then passed without any further public inspection, notice or hearing.
      2.   For the purpose of preparing the aforesaid estimate, they are
authorized to require all officers to submit statements of the condition and
expenses of their respective offices or departments, a description of proposed
City improvements, and the probable expense thereof, a description of all
unperformed contracts and a statement of the amount of all unexpired
appropriations of the preceding year.
      3.   They shall recommend to the Mayor and the City Council the salaries
to be paid each appointive subordinate employee of the City.
      4.   With the approval of the City Council, they shall consolidate,
combine, or reorganize positions or units under their jurisdiction.
      5.   They shall purchase all materials, supplies or equipment subject to
and pursuant to directives and appropriations made and provided by the Mayor
and the City Council, and subject also to the Statutes of the State pertaining
to creation of liabilities against the City and pertaining to the expenditures
or appropriations of the monies of the City.
      6.   They shall give such additional reports and information concerning
the fiscal matters of the City as may from time to time be required by the City
Council.
   G.   Powers And Duties with Reference to City Administration: In addition to
the above duties, the City Manager shall perform such other duties as are
herein provided. The City Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of
the City and shall be responsible to the mayor and to the City Council for the
administration and operation of all the affairs and the departments of the
City. As such Administrative Officer, they shall have the administration and
control of all matters and things pertaining to the operation and maintenance
of the properties of the City and of all of the departments of the City,
including, but not limited to, the Department of Public Works, the Fire
Department, the Police Department, the Water Department, the Health Department,
the Department of Streets and Sewers, and the general offices of the City; they
shall also have supervision of such other administrative agencies and
departments and officers as may be hereafter created by the City Council unless
the administration and control of such departments and officers is expressly
delegated elsewhere. They shall perform their duties in conformity with the
rules of the City Council. Specifically, but not in limitation of the above,
they shall have the following additional powers and duties:
      1.   Appointment, Removal and Suspension of Officers and Employees:
         a.   They may recommend to the mayor and to the Council the
appointment of all officers of the City who are required by law to be appointed
by the mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council, and they may
recommend to the mayor the appointment of employees and officers who are
required to be appointed by the mayor. They shall further recommend the removal
or suspension of any such officer or employee when such removal or suspension
shall be consistent with the best interests of the City. All such
recommendations for appointment or removal shall be based upon merit and upon
the qualifications or disqualifications of such officer or employee without
regard to political belief or affiliation.
         b.   They shall have the power to appoint and remove all directors and
employees of departments. No appointment shall be made upon any basis other
than that of merit and fitness except that if the Chief of the Fire Department
or the Chief of the Police Department or both are appointed, they may be
removed or discharged by the appointing authority. In such case the appointing
authority shall file with the City Council the reasons for such removal or
discharge, which removal or discharge shall not become effective unless
confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council.
      2.   Purchases: They shall make all necessary purchases of supplies and
equipment for all departments of the City; and for that purpose, they are
authorized to make expenditures without preliminary authorization by the
Council; provided, however, that all expenditures and payments, regardless of
amount, shall be subject to the confirmation or approval of the City Council
and the limitations imposed by the adoption of a budget or special
appropriation.
      3.   Attend Council Meetings: They shall attend all meetings of the City
Council unless excused therefrom by the Council, except when their removal is
under consideration by the Council. They shall have the privilege of taking
part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council and shall be
entitled to notice of all meetings, regular and special, of the Council.
      4.   Investigations: They shall make investigations into the affairs of
the City or any department or division thereof and shall investigate all
complaints in relation to matters concerning City services and City
administration.
      5.   Commitment to Position: They shall devote their entire time to
discharge of official duties.
      6.   Sign Contracts: Whenever authorized by the City Council, they shall
sign all contracts on behalf of the City.
      7.   Other Duties: they shall perform such other duties as may be
required of them by the Council consistent with the City ordinances or the
Statutes of the State.
   H.   Officers Not to Interfere with Appointments or Removals: No officer of
the city shall dictate the appointment of any person to, or their removal from,
office by the city manager or by any of their subordinates. Except for the
purpose of inquiry, officers shall deal with the administrative service through
the city manager, and officers shall not give orders to any subordinates of the
city manager, either publicly or privately.
   I.   City Manager Pro Tern: During the absence or disability of the city
manager, the city council may designate some properly qualified person to act
as city manager pro tempore to perform the duties of the office.
   J.   Scope Of Provisions: All ordinances of the city prescribing the duties
of heads of departments shall remain in full force and effect except insofar as
they conflict with the provisions of this section, in which case, the
provisions of this section shall govern. (Ord., 1-3-1995; amd. 2001 Code; Ord.
09-0912, 9-8-2009; Ord. 17-0416, 4-17-2017; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-4-2: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointive Office: The office of city attorney is an appointed
position, who serves a one-year term and may be reappointed.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Upon a vacancy in the office of city attorney, the
city manager shall, within ninety (90) days, bring forth a qualified and
experienced appointee for consideration and approval by the city council.
   C.   Duties: The city attorney shall perform the duties and assignments
required and instructed by the city council along with all duties required by
Illinois state statute, and shall include:
      1.   Prosecuting or defending all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the city may be a party or in which it may be interested; and
      2.   Full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in
favor of the city; and
      3.   Be the legal advisor of the city, who shall render advice on all
legal questions affecting the city; and
      4.   Handle all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings; and
      5.   Legal review of city contracts and the drafting of ordinances or
resolutions covering any subjects within the power of the city; and
      6.   Any other municipal legal duties as requested by the mayor of city
council; and
      7.   Attend city council meetings (normally two per month) and committee
meetings (as needed); and
      8.   Labor and employment counsel responsible for providing legal
services encompassing all aspects of Illinois and federal law as it applies to
the employment, disciplining, and terminating of city employees in both union
and nonunion environments; collective bargaining representation and counsel may
be needed from time to time.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation for the office of city attorney shall be set
by the city council. (Ord. 09-0909, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-4-3: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointive Office. The office of the City Treasurer is an appointed
position. While the City Clerk enjoys certain powers and responsibilities as
set forth in Title 2, Chapter 3 of the East Dubuque, Illinois City, the City
Clerk may also serve, concurrent and also along with their role as City Clerk,
as City Treasurer if approved by the City Council. Any activities undertaken in
fulfillment of the role of City Treasurer shall be under the direct supervision
and direction of the City Manager.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Upon a vacancy in the office of city treasurer, the
city manager shall, within ninety (90) days, bring forth a qualified and
experienced appointee for consideration and approval by the city council.
   C.   Duties: The city treasurer shall perform the duties and assignments
required and instructed by the city council along with all duties required by
Illinois state statute.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation for the office of city treasurer shall be
recommended by the city manager.
   E.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of this office, the city
treasurer shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the city council, said
bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of duties. The premium of
the bond shall be paid by the city.
(Ord., 11-18-1996; amd. Ord. 09-0910, 9-8-2009; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022; Ord.
24-0619, 6-17-2024)
2-4-4: CITY COLLECTOR:
(Reserved)
2-4-5: CITY ENGINEER:
(Reserved)
2-4-6: ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT:
   A.   Appointive Office: The office of administrative assistant is an
appointed position by the city manager.
   B.   Bond: The administrative assistant shall execute a bond and with such
sureties as may be required by the city council, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of this office. The premium of the bond shall be paid
by the city.
   C.   Duties: The administrative assistant shall perform the duties and
assignments required and instructed by the city manager. Primary duties include
maintain utility billing, field all phone calls for city license applications
and zoning, issue approved building permits, prepare, and distribute city
council agendas, and all other duties as prescribed for this office.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation for the office of administrative assistant
shall be recommended by the city manager. (Ord. 09-0911, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-4-7: ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Creation Of Office: There is hereby created the office of assistant
city manager, an administrative office of the city. The functions, duties, and
responsibilities shall be combined and be held by one person to be known as the
assistant city manager.
   B.   Appointment: The city manager shall appoint the assistant city manager
solely based on their executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to their actual experience in or their knowledge of accepted practice
in respect to the duties of their office hereinafter set forth, and such
requirements and qualifications are hereby declared to be of a nature as to
require technical training or knowledge.
      Whenever the city manager is unable to personally perform the duties of
their office due to disability or absence from the city, the assistant city
manager, at no increase in salary, shall serve as acting city manager, and
shall supervise and be responsible for the effective management and
administration of city affairs and otherwise shall be empowered with all the
powers of the city manager, except the power to appoint and remove heads of
city department and divisions; provided, however, that whenever the city
manager's absence or disability appears to the city council to be of a
continuing duration, the city council may, in its discretion, appoint the
assistant city manager to perform the duties of the city manager.
   C.   Tenure Of Office: The term of office of the assistant city manager
shall be determined by the city council. The assistant city manager may resign
from their office or may be removed therefrom only in such manner as is
provided by the statutes of the state pertaining to the resignation or the
removal of the appointed officers.
   D.   Bond And Oath: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
assistant city manager shall furnish a surety bond in an amount approved by the
city council. Said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of their
duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
      Before entering upon the duties of their office, the assistant city
manager shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the statutes of the
state in such case provided.
   E.   Compensation: The assistant city manager shall receive compensation in
such amount and manner as recommended by the city manager.
   F.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The assistant city manager shall perform functions and duties
specified below, and to perform other legally permissible and proper duties and
functions as the city manager shall from time-to-time assign.
         a.   Budget: Cooperate with the city treasurer and city manager in the
development and monitoring of a long-range capital improvement plan for the
city. Assist in presenting said plan to the city council for approval.
         b.   Development:
         (1)   Develop grant applications as directed by the city manager.
         (2)   Administer all grant contracts to ensure compliance with the
regulations and goals of the contract.
         (3)   Assist in locating additional sources of funding consistent with
the city's comprehensive plan and capital improvement plan.
         (4)   Work cooperatively with and assist department heads in the
completion of projects.
         c.   Public Property, Facilities and Buildings:
         (1)   Assist the city manager in developing and maintaining an
inventory of city owned property, facilities, and buildings.
         (2)   Assist the city manager in developing, maintaining, and
implementing a maintenance program for city owned property, facilities, and
buildings.
         (3)   Assume the lead role developing and implementing strategies to
reduce net operating and ownership costs of city owned property, facilities,
and buildings.
         d.   General Administration:
         (1)   Administer city contracts to ensure compliance with local,
state, and federal laws and policies set forth by the city council.
         (2)   Represent the city at such groups, advisory boards, or meetings
as directed by the city manager.
         (3)   Perform such other duties as required. (Ord. 09-0914, 9-8-2009;
amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 5
HUMAN RESOURCES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Residency Requirements
2-5-2: Municipal Retirement Fund
2-5-3: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act Adopted
2-5-4: Equal Employment Policy
2-5-5: Drug And Alcohol Testing
2-5-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
At the time of appointment, all department heads need to be a resident of the
State of Illinois, and may be required to live within the East Dubuque City
limits. Current department heads are exempt from this requirement, however,
should they move residences, they may be required to reside within the East
Dubuque City limits. The residency requirement may be waived at the discretion
of the city council. (Ord. 09-0918, 9-8-2009; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-5-2: MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The City elects to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. The
standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally requiring
performance of duty for six hundred (600) hours per year. (Ord., 8-15-1994;
amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-5-3: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT ADOPTED:
   A.   The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10
through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430 /1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "Act" in
this section), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the
officers and employees of the City to the extent required by 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the City of East
Dubuque, is hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the City of East Dubuque under the Act, is hereby
prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the City of East Dubuque, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the Act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of City officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
Corporate Authorities of the City.
   I.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the City if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   J.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act, as adopted by
this section, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of the City. (Ord.
04-0508, 5-3-2004; amd. Ord. 09-0918, 9-8-2009; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-5-4: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the term "minority" will
refer to American Indians, Asians, blacks, Hispanics, or to such protected
classes as youth, elderly, women or persons with disabilities.
   B.   Enforcement Of EEO Laws: The City hereby declares to uphold, defend,
enforce, and advocate for all laws related to equal employment opportunity
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving Federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color or national
origin.
      2.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges, and conditions of employment.
      3.   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in Federally assisted education programs.
      4.   The Equal Pay Act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered
by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids pay differentials on the basis
of sex.
      5.   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty-five
(65).
      6.   Federal Executive Order 11246 which requires every contract with
Federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
ofrace, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
      7.   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on
disability.
      8.   Section 167 ofJTPA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31
and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination on the basis ofrace, color or national origin, under any program
or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of
Labor.
      9.   Chapter 68, article 1, section 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
      10.   The Americans Disabilities Act of 1990 which prohibits any
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disability.
   C.   Nondiscriminatory Employment Practices: The City will assure
nondiscriminatory employment practices in recruitment, recruitment advertising,
employment, placement, layoff or termination, promotion, demotion or transfer,
rate of pay or other forms of compensation and use of facilities.
   D.   Contracts With Other Agencies, Banks, Businesses and Vendors: The city
will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses, vendors, etc., who
practice or establish a pattern of discrimination based on sex, color, race,
religion, age, national origin, political affiliation, or belief. The city will
incorporate into any contract for construction work or modification thereof,
subject to the relevant rules, regulations, and orders of the secretary of
labor or of any prior authority that remains in effect, which is paid for in
whole or in part with the aid of such financial assistance, the following
"equal opportunity clause":
      1.   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited to employment,
upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff
or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for
training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to post in
conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment,
notices setting forth the provisions of the nondiscrimination clause.
      2.   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, or disability.
      3.   In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part, and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
      4.   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal opportunity
clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by the rules,
regulations, or orders of the secretary of labor so that such provisions will
be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   E.   Nondiscriminatory Outreach, Selection and Service: The city assures
that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory outreach, selection, and
service to all individuals.
   F.   Hiring Of Minority Individuals: Efforts will be made to hire minority
individuals for all job categories so that minority employment in all
categories of the work force will represent a proportionate share of minority
populations in the city as well as surrounding areas.
   G.   Accommodations For Employees with Disabilities: The city will provide
accommodations to the best of its ability for all employees with disabilities,
contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   H.   Implementation Of EEO Policy: All city employees are expected to adhere
to this section and to work actively for its implementation both internally and
in carrying out city program activities. The city manager and city council
shall carry out the EEO/ AA plan.
   I.   Amendments To Policy: The city reserves the right to amend the policy
from time to time. (Res. 00-0403, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-5-5: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING:
   A.   Prohibitions: Employees are prohibited from consuming alcohol or
possessing, selling, purchasing, or delivering illegal drugs at any time during
the workday or anywhere on the city's premises, or failing to report to their
supervisors any known side effects of medication or prescription drugs which
they are taking. Employees also agree to limit their intake of alcohol eight
(8) hours prior to reporting for a scheduled shift.
   B.   Authority To Test; Restrictions: Where the city has reasonable
suspicion to believe that an employee is under the influence of alcohol or
illegal drugs during the course of their workday, the city shall have the right
to require the employee to submit to alcohol or drug testing. There shall be no
random or unit wide testing of employees, except random testing of an
individual employee as authorized in subsection Hof this section, or federal or
state license requirements.
   C.   Order To Take Test; Notice; Responses; Consequences: The city shall
provide the employee at the time he is ordered to submit to testing with a
written notice of the order, setting forth the facts and inferences upon which
the city bases its conclusion of reasonable suspicion. The employee shall have
the right to consult with the union representative and/or counsel prior to any
questioning.
   Refusal to comply with the order to test may subject the employee to
discipline but taking of a test shall not operate to waive any objection or
rights the employee may have. No employee shall be subject to any adverse
employment action, except temporary reassignment or relief from duty with pay
during the pendency of any testing procedure. Such reassignment or relief from
duty shall be discontinued immediately in the event of negative test results.
   D.   Conduct Of Test: The city shall use only a clinical laboratory or
hospital facility that is licensed per the Illinois central laboratory act,
which laboratory shall comply with all NIDA standards. The city shall establish
a chain of custody procedure to ensure the integrity of samples and test
results and shall not permit the employee or any other bargaining unit member
to a part of such chain. Sufficient samples shall be collected so as to permit
an initial, a confirmatory, and a subsequent test to be arranged at a facility
of the employee's choosing. Confirming tests shall be gas chromatography, plus
mass spectrometry (GCMS) or an equivalent scientifically accurate test.
   E.   Results: As to drug or alcohol testing, the city shall only be notified
in the event that a sample has tested positive for a particular drug or alcohol
on both the initial and confirmatory tests, and any information otherwise
coming into the possession or knowledge of the city ( e.g., the insurance
billings) shall not be used in any manner or form adverse to the employee's
interest. The employee shall receive a copy of all test results, information,
documents, and other reports received by the city.
   F.   Right To Contest: If no disciplinary charges are filed, the union and/
or employee shall have the right to contest and/or grieve any aspect of any
testing, including the right to test, the order, the administration of the
test, the significance or accuracy of the test, or the consequences of the test
results. Nothing herein shall waive or limit any rights employees may have
concerning such tests that may arise outside this section which employee may
pursue.
   G.   Voluntary Request for Assistance: No adverse employment action shall be
taken in any manner or form against any employee who voluntarily seeks
assistance for alcohol or prescription drug related problems, other than the
city may temporarily reassign an employee if he is then unfit for duty in his
current assignment. All such requests shall be held strictly confidential and
not released or used in any manner or form contrary to the employee's interest.
   H.   Discipline: Except for prohibited drugs, in the first instance, an
employee tests positive as defined herein on a drug or alcohol test, the
employee may be subject to disciplinary action not discharge (other alleged
violations may be just cause for discharge on their own merits, but test
results shall not be a factor in aggravation), provided that the employee
participates in an appropriate treatment program determined by his physician,
discontinues his use of prohibited drugs or abuse of alcohol and submits to
random testing as directed by his counselors in an appropriate aftercare
program. Employees who do not comply with the conditions of this section, or
who test positive for a second time, shall be subject to dismissal. Employees
who are unfit to perform reasonable duties to which they may be assigned during
the period of their treatment and aftercare shall be permitted to take
accumulated time off and shall be afforded a leave of absence upon request for
the period of counseling and aftercare, at the option of the employee. (2001
Code; amd. Ord. 09-0918, 9-8-2009; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 6
DEPARTMENTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE GROUPS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Public Works Director; Duties
2-6-2: Department Of Public Transportation (Reserved)
2-6-1: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; DUTIES:
   A.   The public works director shall be the chief administrative officer of
the public works department. They shall be responsible to the city manager for
the administration of the public works department. They shall be charged with
the repair and maintenance of municipal buildings, vehicles, machinery,
equipment, waterworks system, sewerage system, waste and rubbish system,
streets and alleys, flood and storm water control systems, and parks and
playgrounds. They shall be responsible for planning, organizing, directing,
staffing, and coordinating public works operations. They shall be responsible
for reporting the operational performance of the public works department to the
city manager and city council. They shall assist the city manager in the
preparation of the budget.
   B.   The public works director shall perform other legally permissible and
proper public works related duties and functions as the city manager shall,
from time to time, assign.
   C.   The public works director shall formulate departmental rules,
regulations, and procedures in cooperation with the city manager, to whom they
report and to whom they are responsible, for the proper operation of the public
works department.
   D.   The public works director shall devote their entire time to the
discharge of their official duties and shall not engage in outside employment
without getting permission from the city council; however, the term "outside
employment" shall not be construed to include occasional teaching, writing, or
consulting. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-6-2: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION:
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Election Wards
2-7-1: ELECTION WARDS:
   A.   First Ward: Beginning at the centerline intersection of Sherwood Avenue
and Clinton Avenue; thence northeasterly to the northwesterly corner of Sub Lot
2 of Out Lot 12, also the southwesterly corner of Lot 5 of Sub of Out Lot 13;
thence easterly along the south line of said Lot 5 to the southwest corner of
Out Lot 15; thence continuing easterly along the south line of said Lot 15 to
the westerly line of Illinois Highway 35; thence northeasterly along the
northerly line of Highway 35 to the southwesterly corner of Parcel No. 05-506-
216-00; thence northeasterly along the southerly line of Parcel No. 05-506-216-
00 to the southeasterly corner of said parcel; thence northerly along the
easterly line of Parcel 05-506-216-00 to a point on said line which is
perpendicular to the northwest corner of Parcel 05-506-215-00; thence easterly
to the northwest corner of Parcel No. 05-506-215-00; thence easterly along the
northerly line of Parcel No. 05-506-215-00 to the northeasterly corner of said
parcel; thence southerly along the easterly line of said parcel to the
northerly line of Illinois Highway 35; thence continuing southerly along the
extension of said line to the southerly line of said highway; also the
corporate limit line; thence following the corporate limit line in an easterly
direction for several courses, and continuing to follow said corporate limit
line to a point on the northerly line of U.S. Highway 20; thence northwesterly
along the northerly line of U.S. Highway 20 to a point of intersection with the
easterly line of the northwest quarter of Section 29, T29N, R2W of the 4th
P.M.; thence north along the east line of the northwest quarter of said section
29 to a point of intersection with the northwesterly line of Lot 25 of C.S.
Burt's Addition; thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line of Lot 25
to the northeast corner of Lot 24 of C.S. Burt's Addition; thence northwesterly
along the northerly line of Lots 1 thru 24 of C.S. Burt's Addition to the
northeasterly most corner of Lot 1 of C.S. Burt's Addition; thence
northwesterly to the southeasterly corner of Lot 15 of O'Dell & Burt's
Addition; thence northwesterly along the easterly line of Lots 4 thru 15 of
O'Dell & Burt's Addition to the southerly line of Hill Street, also the
northwesterly corner of said Lot 4; thence continuing in a northwesterly
direction to the southeasterly corner of Lot 3 of O'Dell & Burt's Addition,
also a point on the north line of Hill Street; thence northwesterly along the
northerly line of Lots 2 and 3 of O'Dell & Burt's Addition to the northwest
corner of said Lot 2, also the southeasterly corner of Lot 1 of O'Dell & Burt's
Addition; thence northwesterly along the northerly line of Lot 1 of O'Dell &
Burt's Addition to the Northwesterly corner of said Lot 1; thence continuing
northwesterly to the northeasterly corner of Parcel No. 05-504-740-00; thence
northwesterly along the northerly line of Parcel No. 05-504-7 40-00 to a point
of intersection with the north line of an alley; thence following the north
line of said alley to southwesterly corner of Lot 18 of Block 113; thence
southwesterly to the southeasterly corner of Lot 19 of Block 113, also a point
on the southerly line of 15' wide alley; thence southwesterly along the
southeasterly line of Block 113 to a point of intersection where said line
changes direction to the northwest and continues along the northerly line of
Block 114 to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of Block 114, a point on the
southerly line of Wisconsin Avenue; thence northwesterly to the southeasterly
corner of Lot 13 of Block 112, also a point on the north line of Wisconsin
Avenue; thence northwesterly along the southerly line of Lot 13 of Block 112 to
the northwest corner of said Lot 13; thence northerly to a point of
intersection of a 30' wide alley, the point of intersection being defined by a
line which is 15' parallel and southerly of Lot 1 of Block 139 and 15' parallel
and northerly of Blocks 111 and 112; thence northeasterly along the centerline
of a 30 foot alley located on the north side of Blocks 111 and 112 to a point
of intersection with the centerline of Clinton Avenue; thence northerly along
the centerline of Clinton Avenue to the point of beginning.
   B.   Second Ward: Beginning at a point on the corporate limits on the West
side of Fractional Section 19, Township 29 North Range 2 West of the 4th P.M.,
thence in a southeasterly direction on a direct line to the northern extremity
of Block No. One (1), thence in an easterly direction to the centerline
intersection of Sinsinawa Avenue and Jordan Avenue; thence northeasterly along
the center of Jordan Avenue to the centerline of the intersection of Jordan
Avenue and Sherwood Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of Sherwood
Avenue to the intersection of Sherwood Avenue and Clinton Ave; thence southerly
along the center line of Clinton Avenue to the intersection of the center line
of the 30 foot wide alley on the northerly side of Blocks 111 and 112; thence
in a southwesterly direction along said alley centerline to a point of
intersection where said alley changes direction to the northwest; thence in a
line to the Northwest corner of Lot 13 in Block 112; thence southeasterly along
the southerly line of Lot 13 of Block 112 to the northerly line of Wisconsin
Avenue; hence southeasterly to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of Block 114;
thence southeasterly along the northerly line of Block 114 to a point of
intersection where said line changes direction to the northeast and continues
along the southeasterly line of Block 113 to the southeasterly corner of Lot 19
of said Block 113, also a point on the southerly line of a 15' wide alley;
thence northeasterly to the southwesterly corner of Lot 18 of Block 113, a
point on the northerly line of said 15 foot wide alley; thence southeasterly
along said alley line to the northerly most point of Parcel No. 05-504-740-00;
thence southeasterly along the northerly line of Parcel No. 05-504-7 40-00 to
the northeasterly most point of said parcel; thence in a southeasterly
direction to the northwesterly corner of Lot 1 of O'Dell & Burt's Addition;
thence southeasterly along the northern line of said Lot 1 to the southeasterly
corner of said Lot 1, also the northwest corner of Lot 2 of O'Dell & Burt's
Addition; thence southeasterly along the northerly line of Lots 2 and 3 of
O'Dell & Burt's Addition to the northerly line of Hill Street; thence
continuing southeasterly to the northwesterly corner of Lot 4 of O'Dell &
Burt's Addition, also a point on the southerly line of Hill Street; thence
continuing southeasterly along the easterly line of Lots 4 thru 15 of O'Dell &
Burt's Addition to a point on the southerly line of Sub Lot 3 of Out Lot No. 9,
also the southeasterly corner of said Lot 15; also including a parcel described
as O'Dell & Burt's Addition SW Corner of Out Lot 3 (Parcel No. 05-504-777-00);
also including a parcel described as C.S. Burt's Addition, Part Outlot 8, Part
Lot 27 (Parcel No. 05-504-680-00); thence continuing from the southeasterly
corner of said Lot 15 of O'Dell & Burt's Addition to the northeasterly-most
corner of Lot 1 of C.S. Burt's Addition; thence southeasterly along the
northerly line of Lots 1 thru 24 of C.S. Burt's Addition to the northeasterly
corner of Lot 24 of C.S. Burt's Addition, also a point on the northerly line of
Lot 25 of C.S. Burt's Addition; thence northeasterly along the northerly line
of said Lot 25 to a point on the east line of the northwest quarter of Section
29, T29N, R2W of the 4th P.M.; thence south along the east line of said
northwest quarter to a point on the northerly line of U.S. Highway 20; thence
easterly along said northerly line of U.S. Highway 20 to the southwesterly
corner of Parcel No. 05-001-280-06; also including said Parcel No. 05-001-280-
06; including Lot 5 of Ralph Tranel's Addition to Dunleith Township (Parcel No.
05-001-280-21); thence continuing easterly from the southeasterly corner of Lot
5 of Ralph Tranel's Addition following the present corporate limits for several
courses back to the point of beginning.
   C.   Third Ward: Beginning at a point on the corporate limits on the west
side of Fractional Section 19, Township 29 North Range 2 West of the 4th P.M.;
thence in a southeasterly direction on a direct line to the northern extremity
of Block 1; thence in an easterly direction to the centerline intersection of
Sinsinawa Avenue and the centerline of Jordan Avenue; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Jordan Avenue to the centerline intersection of Jordan
Avenue and Sherwood Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of Sherwood
Avenue to the centerline intersection of Sherwood Avenue and Clinton Avenue;
thence northeasterly to the northwesterly corner of Sub Lot 2 of Out Lot 12,
also the southwesterly corner of Lot 5 of Sub of Out Lot 13; thence easterly
along the south line of said Lot 5 to the southwest corner of Out Lot 15;
thence continuing easterly along the south line of said Lot 15 to the westerly
line of Illinois Highway 35; thence northeasterly along the northerly line of
Highway 35 to the southwesterly corner of Parcel No. 05-506-216-00; thence
continuing northeasterly along the southerly line of Parcel No. 05-506-216-00
also the northerly line of Highway 35 to the southeasterly corner of said
parcel; thence northerly along the easterly line of Parcel No. 05-506-216-00 to
the northeasterly corner of said parcel; thence westerly along the northerly
line of said parcel to a point of intersection with the corporate limits line;
thence in a northerly direction and following the corporate limits line for
several courses to the point of beginning.
   D.   Map: The map attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by reference, which map includes and incorporates the
description contained in subsections A, B and C of this section, is hereby
approved. Said wards described in this section and depicted on exhibit A shall
constitute city council election districts for the purposes of electing
representatives from each ward as provided by law. In the case of conflict
between the map and within descriptions set forth in this section, the map
shall prevail. (Ord. 06-1106, 11-6-2006; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCES
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 9
RECORDS ACCESS
SECTION:
2-9-1: Freedom Of Information Act
2-9-1: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT:
   A.   The City Manager is hereby designated as the FOIA officer to whom all
initial requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the offices of the city hall at 261 Sinsinawa, East
Dubuque, Illinois, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) AM. and four
thirty o'clock ( 4:30) P.M., Monday through Friday. If the City Manager is not
available during the times described above, the designated deputy FOIA officer
is to whom such initial requests are to be made. Except in instances when
records are furnished immediately, the FOIA officer, or their designees, shall
receive requests submitted to the city under the freedom of information act,
ensure that the city responds to requests in a timely fashion, and issue
responses under the act. The FOIA officer shall develop a list of documents or
categories of records that the city shall immediately disclose upon request.
   B.   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA officer shall:
      1.   Note the date the city receives the written request.
      2.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request.
      3.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied; and
      4.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   C.   The FOIA officer and deputy FOIA officer shall, within six (6) months
after January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum
to be developed by the public access counselor of the state of Illinois and
thereafter successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new
freedom of information officer is designated by the city, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within thirty (30)
days after assuming the position.
   D.   Any records which are the subject of a request under the freedom of
information act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the
FOIA officer, or by an employee of the city acting under the direction of the
FOIA officer. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed by the city.
   E.   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA officer
pursuant to section 6(b) of the freedom of information act. The city clerk
shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in the clerk's office. The
fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the
cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested.
   F.   In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the
FOIA officer, the denial may be appealed to the public access counselor of the
state of Illinois.
   G.   The City Manager shall prepare: 1) a city information directory; 2) a
block diagram of the function subdivisions of the city; 3) a city records
directory; and 4) a records catalog, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof as exhibits A, B, C, and D. This information shall also be posted
on the city's website. (Ord. 10-0613, 6-7-2010)
CHAPTER 10
PREVAILING WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Wage Rates
2-10-2: Severability
2-10-1: WAGE RATES:
   A.   To the extent and as required by the prevailing wage act 1 , the
general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and
other workers engaged in construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of the city shall be ascertained to be the same as the prevailing
rate of wages for construction work in the county area as determined annually
by the state department of labor as of June 1 of each year. The definition of
any terms appearing in this section which are also used in the aforesaid act
shall be the same as in such act.
   B.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to apply the
general prevailing rate of wages as ascertained in this chapter to any work or
employment except public works construction of the city to the extent required
by the aforesaid act.
   C.   The city clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by
any interested party at the city clerk's office of this city of this
determination of the prevailing rate of wages as provided in this chapter.
   D.   The city clerk shall mail a copy of the determination of the prevailing
rate of wages as provided in this chapter to any employer, to any association
of employers, and to any person or association of employees who have filed
their names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the
particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages will be
affected by such rates. (Ord. 01-0803, 8-6-2001; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
2-10-2: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 01-0803, 8-6-2001; amd. Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 11
CUSTOMER SERVICE POLICY AND PROCEDURES
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 12
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 13
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
2-13-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
2-13-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
2-13-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
2-13-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
2-13-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
2-13-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
2-13-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of City of East Dubuque to prohibit harassment of
any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof). (Ord. 17-1219, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-13-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment;
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy, or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups, or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyberstalking, and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   C.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person". (Ord. 17-1219, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 22-
0325, 4-11-2022)
2-13-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her /his position
to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her /his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality. The employee
experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must not assume
that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses and the
victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this chapter is to-
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time, and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos, and telephone
messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted, and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 17-
1219, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-13-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
chapter,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this chapter, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics. Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act, an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation.
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act, it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 17-1219, 12-18-
2017; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-13-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this chapter or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 17-1219, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-13-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous, or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 17-1219, 12-18-2017;
amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 14
SOCIAL MEDIA USE POLICY
SECTION:
2-14-1: Statement Of Purpose
2-14-2: Administration Of Accounts
2-14-3: Comment Policy
2-14-4: Compliance With Laws
2-14-5: Employee Usage
2-14-6: Employee Acknowledgment
2-14-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The City of East Dubuque believes that the use of social media platforms can
effectively broaden the reach of government communication to its constituents
and foster a dynamic environment for social discourse. The use of social media
by the City of East Dubuque is to convey or obtain information that is useful
to, or will further the goals of, this local government. (Ord. 20-1207, 12-21-
2020; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-14-2: ADMINISTRATION OF ACCOUNTS:
A designated administrator, or administrators, will be responsible for
maintenance and supervision of each social media platform of the City of East
Dubuque. Each administrator will be knowledgeable regarding the terms of the
social media use policy, regarding other responsibilities to review content to
ensure it is in compliance with the policy and in furtherance of the City's
goals. (Ord. 20-1207, 12-21-2020; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-14-3: COMMENT POLICY:
   A.   Social media platforms not only provide the government with a
communications venue but often allow for public comment to be posted to the
City's sites. Any comment made by a member of the public as a social media user
is that user's opinion only. Publication of the comment does not imply
endorsement or agreement by the government nor reflect the opinions or policies
of the government.
   B.   The following enumerated list of content may not be permitted on the
City's social media platforms and such content is subject to removal and/or
restriction by the administrator. Content that:
      1.   Promotes discrimination.
      2.   Violates a legal ownership interest (such as a copyright or
trademark).
      3.   Threatens any person or organization.
      4.   Includes personally identifiable information, such as a Social
Security number or other sensitive information.
      5.   Violates any federal, state, or local law or encourages illegal
activity.
      6.   Is obscene, sexual, or pornographic in content and/or language.
      7.   Promotes commercial activities not related to government business.
      8.   Is spam or links to malware/viruses; or
      9.   Discloses confidential government information, sensitive information
or personal information relating to government officials and employees, or
members of the public.
   C.   Each particular private social media enterprise maintains a "Terms of
Use" agreement. All comments posted to any City social media platform are bound
by those terms of use agreements and the City reserves the right to report any
user violation to the respective enterprise.
   D.   The City of East Dubuque reserves the right to remove content from, or
deny access to, any government social media platforms if any individual or
organization violates the social media use policy. (Ord. 20-1207, 12-21-2020;
amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-14-4: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
All City social media platforms shall adhere to applicable Federal, State, and
local laws, regulations, and policies. Content posted on any City social media
platform by any user is subject to the Freedom of Information Act, record
retention laws and may be subject to e-discovery laws. Property that is
protected by copyright or trademark should not be posted or maintained on a
social media platform in violation of the owner's legal interest. (Ord. 20-
1207, 12-21-2020; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-14-5: EMPLOYEE USAGE:
   A.   The City of East Dubuque recognizes that social media creates
opportunities for community engagement, interpersonal connection, and self-
expression, but it also creates risks and responsibilities. Everyone should
assume that any use of social media - whether on a business or personal account
- could be viewed by a colleague, supervisor, partner, supplier, or member of
the public. If any social media activity of an employee of the government
adversely affects the employee's job performance, the performance of fellow
employees, or otherwise adversely affects the goals of the government, an
employee of the government may be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including termination.
   B.   Disclosure of confidential government information, sensitive
information or personal information relating to government officials and
employees, or members of the public, is prohibited.
   C.   It is requested that employees who identify themselves as employees of
the City of East Dubuque post a disclaimer on their own personal social media
platforms that any posts or blogs are solely the opinion of the employee and
not the employer.
   D.   Personal use of social media in the workplace may be allowed within
reasonable time limits so long as it does not adversely impact the government
employee's job performance.
   E.   Employees of the City have no expectation of privacy when using the
internet on employer equipment or during hours of employment. (Ord. 20-1207,
12-21-2020; amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-14-6: EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
Employees are required to sign a written acknowledgment that they have
received, read, and understand this policy, and submit that acknowledgment to
the designated administrator. The form that is attached to Ordinance 20-1207,
which is hereby adopted by reference as if laid out fully herein, will
sufficiently satisfy this requirement upon receipt. (Ord. 20-1207, 12-21-2020;
amd. Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 15
CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
2-15-1: Adjudication Of Municipal Code Violations; Scope
2-15-2: Administrative Adjudication Procedures Not Exclusive
2-15-3: Composition Of Code Hearing Division; Hearing Officer; Powers And
Duties
2-15-4: Administrative Hearing Process
2-15-5: Prima Facie Case; Rules Of Evidence; Standard Of Proof
2-15-6: Subpoenas And Defaults
2-15-7: Continuances
2-15-8: Findings, Decision, Order, And Penalty
2-15-9: Late Fees
2-15-10: Judicial Review
2-15-11: Nonresident Procedures
2-15-12: Enforcement Of Administrative Orders
2-15-13: Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement
2-15-14: Collections Of Fines And Costs
2-15-15: Forfeiture Of Evidence
2-15-1: ADJUDICATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS; SCOPE:
   A.   The City of East Dubuque, pursuant to its authority under 65 ILCS 5 /1-
2.2 et seq., hereby establishes the procedure for a system of local
adjudication of City code violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois
Constitution.
   B.   As used in this chapter, a "system of local adjudication" means the
adjudication of any violation of the City of East Dubuque Code through the
establishment of a code hearing department except for (i) building code
violations and (ii) any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar
offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles or a
reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS
5/6-204) (hereinafter "local adjudication").
   C.   This chapter is intended to comply with 65 ILCS 5 /1-2.2 et seq. and
where there is any conflict or missing information, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2 et seq.
shall supersede this chapter.
   D.   To accomplish the purposes set forth herein, the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/11-208.3 et seq.) is adopted in its current form and as it may be
amended from time to time for adjudication of vehicular regulation violations
to the extent permitted by the state constitution.
   E.   The process for local adjudication may be consolidated and organized in
conjunction with Chapter 9.40 (Seizure and Impoundment of Vehicles) of the City
of East Dubuque.
   F.   The process for local adjudication may be consolidated and organized in
conjunction with the process for building code and nuisance administrative
adjudication provided in Chapters 1 through 4 of Title 14, Chapters 1 through
12 of Title 15, and Chapters 1 through 7 of Title 7 of the City of East Dubuque
Code. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-
11-2022)
2-15-2: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the city of a system of local adjudication procedures does not
preclude the city from using other methods to enforce municipal ordinances,
including, but not limited to, the prosecution of violations in the Circuit
Court for the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County, Illinois. (Ord.
21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-3: COMPOSITION OF CODE HEARING DIVISION; HEARING OFFICER; POWERS AND
DUTIES:
   A.   A code hearing division is hereby established with the authority to
oversee the local adjudication process in the City as herein provided and shall
consist of a hearing officer, administrator, and may include a computer
operator/systems coordinator and hearing room personnel.
   B.   Hearing Officer. Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a
hearing officer. The powers and duties of the hearing officer shall include the
authority to:
      1.   Preside over adjudicatory hearings and hear testimony and accept
evidence that is relevant to the existence of the code violations.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives, issue
subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearings.
      4.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence.
      5.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings.
      6.   Weigh the evidence presented at hearings based on relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony.
      7.   Make ultimate findings and determinations based on the relevant and
competent evidence presented at a hearing of whether a code violation exists
and determine the validity of any notice of impending driver's license
suspensions; and
      8.   The determination of the hearing officer shall be in writing and
shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order, including any
fine, costs, penalty, or other action with which the defendant must comply
should the defendant be found liable.
   C.   Administrator. The administrator is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage this system of adjudicatory hearings.
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process code violation notices and other
notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect and process monies paid after a final determination of a
code violation.
      4.   Promulgate internal rules and regulations reasonably required to
operate and maintain this administrative hearing system.
      5.   Certify copies of final determinations of standing and/or parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violation, vehicle sticker
violation or any other ordinance violation adjudicated pursuant to this
chapter, and any factual reports verifying the final determination of any
violation liability which was issued in accordance with this chapter or the
laws of the state, including 625 ILCS 5 /11-208.3, as from time to time
amended;
      6.   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and those of 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5; and
       7.   Collect unpaid fines and/or penalties and otherwise pursue all post
judgment remedies available under law, including compromising and settling
violation notices prior to a hearing date which shall be approved by the
hearing officer.
      8.   The administrator shall also be the traffic compliance administrator
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3.
   D.   System Coordinator/Computer Operator. The system coordinator/computer
operator shall operate and maintain computer programs for the local
adjudication created hereunder, on a day-to-day basis, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Input of hearing and notice dates.
      3.   Input of fine, costs, and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issuance of receipts for payment.
      5.   Issuance of succeeding notices of hearing dates or court dates,
issuing notice of a final determination of liability, issuing notice of
impending driver's license suspension, as directed by the administrator or by
the hearing officer in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth;
and
      6.   Maintaining accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   E.   Hearing Room Personnel. Hearing room personnel shall be qualified off-
duty, fulltime, part-time, or auxiliary police officers who are authorized and
directed to:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Exercise authority consistent with those powers granted to courtroom
deputies of the circuit court; and
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer or administrator.
   F.   Selection and Appointment of Personnel. The persons who shall hold the
positions of hearing officer, administrator, computer operator/systems
coordinator, and hearing room personnel under this chapter shall be selected
and appointed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Hearing Officer Appointment. The hearing officer shall be appointed
by the mayor with the consent of the Board and shall serve pursuant to the
terms set forth in an approved agreement. The hearing officer shall be an
attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three
years and must successfully complete a formal training program, which
instructions on rules of procedure of the administrative hearings that will be
conducted, orientation to each subject area of the code violations that will be
adjudicated, observation of similar administrative hearings, and participation
in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and issuing final orders.
      2.   Administrator, System Coordinator, and Hearing Room Personnel. The
City Administrator shall assign the duties of administrator, system
coordinator, and hearing room personnel to City employees. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-
2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   Authority. All full-time, part-time, and auxiliary police officers as
well as other specifically appointed individuals shall have the authority to
issue violation notices.
   B.   Content of Violation Notice. When a City official with authority to
enforce City ordinances and code provisions makes a determination that a
violation has occurred, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy
violation notice and report form that indicates: (1) the name and address of
the defendant, (2) the type and nature of the violation, including the section
or regulation violated, (3) the date and time the violation was observed, (4)
the names of witnesses to the violation, (5) the signature and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the violation notice and in the
case of vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulations certification
shall be valid if the authorized person issuing the notice signs the notice at
the time of service, (6) a hearing date along with the time and location of the
hearing, (7) if applicable, the amount of the fine and notice that the failure
to pay the fine within the allotted time will result in adjudication of the
violation notice through administrative hearing and the penalties for failing
to appear at the administrative hearing, (8) penalty for any late fee, and (9)
if applicable, the vehicle make and state registration number.
   C.   Content of Violation Notice for Ordinance Violations Related to Vehicle
Standing, Parking, and Other Compliance Regulations. In addition to the above,
there shall be a section entitled "request for hearing" setting forth that the
registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial administrative hearing to
contest the validity of the violation notice on the date and at the time and
place as specified in the violation notice by:
      1.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified "request for hearing".
      2.   If a non-resident of the City of East Dubuque or Jo Daviess County,
checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly identified as
"nonresident request for hearing-nonappearance".
      3.   Placing his name and current address in the place provided.
      4.   Signing his name in the appropriate indicated place.
      5.   Filing the violation notice, with the request for hearing portion
fully completed, with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the first through
the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month, if the
violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month.
The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator; and
      6.   A clearly marked statement that execution of the nonresident request
for hearing is a waiver of the nonresident's right to a personal appearance and
that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized statement of facts
submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the violation notice.
   D.   The violation report derived from the violation notice form shall be
forwarded to the code hearing division where a docket number shall be stamped
on all copies of the report and a hearing date shall be noted or filled in. The
hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days
after the notice is served. One copy of the violation notice and report form
shall be maintained in the files of the code hearing division and shall be part
of the record of the hearing; one copy of the report form shall be returned to
the individual representing the City in the case so that he or she may prepare
evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing on the date
indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served either in person or
by first class mail to the defendant along with a summons commanding the
defendant to appear at the hearing. Hand delivery of the violation notice
containing the required content shall be sufficient for in person service.
Service of a violation notice may be made by affixing the original or a
facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully standing or parked vehicle.
   E.   Parties may request in writing to the hearing officer before the
hearing date that the hearing officer issue subpoenas to direct attendance and
testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant documents.
   F.   At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an opportunity to give
testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-
2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-5: PRIMA FACIE CASE; RULES OF EVIDENCE; STANDARD OF PROOF:
   A.   A prima facie case may be established if the violation notice served in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter is certified by the issuer. A
violation notice shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceeding.
   B.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
adjudicatory hearing process. Any evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted,
but only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their affairs.
   C.   The burden of proof required to sustain a finding of a violation of
City ordinances shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-
11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-6: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two working days prior
to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the case may, at the
request of either party, direct witness to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If, on the date set for hearing, the defendant, or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation in the defendant's absence. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd.
Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-7: CONTINUANCES:
No continuance shall be authorized by the hearing officer except in cases in
which a continuance is necessary to protect the rights of the parties. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance). (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021;
amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-8: FINDINGS, DECISION, ORDER, AND PENALTY:
   A.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination, on the basis of the relevant and competent evidence presented at
the hearing, whether or not a code or ordinance violation exists. The
determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as findings,
decision, and order. The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing
officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not a code or ordinance
violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order.
   B.   If a violation is found, the order shall impose a fine and costs and
may direct the defendant to correct the violation and/or impose such other
sanction as may be appropriate as allowed by law consistent with City
ordinance; set a date by which the violation must be brought into compliance,
if applicable. The order shall contain a statement of the penalties for late
payment and that any unpaid fines, costs, and penalty assessed is a debt due
and owing the City after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
procedures for review. In the case in which a defendant fails to comply with a
judgment ordering the correction of a code violation or imposing any fine or
other sanction as a result of the code violation, the order shall provide that
any expenses incurred by the City to enforce the judgment, including, but not
limited to, attorney fees, costs, and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, shall be a debt due and owing the City and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. If a violation is not found, the order shall
include a statement to that effect and dismiss the case. A copy of the
findings, decision and order shall be served on the owner within five days
after issuance by first class mail.
   C.   A notice of judgment entered by default shall be forwarded to any
person who fails to appear and shall contain the same information as a
determination of liability but shall also state that the judgment may be set
aside by the hearing officer if, within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the
judgment, a petition is received stating what the hearing officer determines is
good cause for failure to appear. The default judgment shall state that it
constitutes a final determination of liability if such petition is not
received, if the petition is denied, or after setting a new hearing date, the
person fails to appear.
   D.   The hearing officer shall not have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation except for those offenses under 625 ILCS 5/11-
208.3 which shall carry a maximum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). When
applicable, however, each day a code provision is found to have been violated
by the defendant shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense
subjects the defendant to the fine and penalty provided by the governing fine
or penalty provision. Any fine assessed is exclusive of any costs imposed. In
all cases where there is a determination of liability by the hearing officer,
the hearing officer shall impose administrative costs (i.e., court costs) in
the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or greater.
   E.   In addition, and notwithstanding any fines and administrative costs,
the hearing officer may order:
      1.   Costs incurred by the City for effecting compliance with code
provision( s) for which a defendant has been found to be liable.
      2.   Compliance with the code provision( s) found to have been violated;
and
      3.   Performance of a term of community service in lieu of fines.
   F.   For all vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation,
there shall be a second notice sent following a failure to appear at the
hearing. In addition, a notice of final determination shall be sent following
an appearance by the violator and a determination of liability or the failure
to appear by the violator by the final hearing date upon conclusion of any
judicial review. The notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   The date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation notice.
      2.   The particular standing, parking or compliance regulation violated.
      3.   The vehicle make and state registration.
      4.   The fine, court costs, and any penalty that may be assessed for late
payment.
      5.   A notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current status,
other than paid in full.
      6.   The date, time, and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits if the individual failed to
appear at his or her first hearing date.
      7.   A statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation liability for the cited
vehicle violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated as well as
court costs;
      8.   If a final determination occurs, a statement that a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation liability
for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due
and owing the City.
      9.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the City within the time specified may result in the City's filing a complaint
in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a judgment as
provided herein; and
      10.   A warning that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within
forty-five ( 45) days of the date of the notice may result in the City
notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of
suspension proceedings under 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 if they have failed to pay any
fine or penalty due and owing as a result often (10) or more vehicular
standing, parking or compliance regulation violations.
   G.   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license shall
be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations. The notice shall state that the
failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within forty-five (45) days of the
date of the notice will result in the City notifying the Secretary of State
that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625
ILCS 5/6-306.5. The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
   H.   Notices shall be sent to the registered owner of the cited vehicle at
the address as is recorded with the Secretary of State or sent to the lessee of
the cited vehicle at the address last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle
at the time of the lease by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   I.   Notices not related to vehicular standing, parking or compliance
regulations shall be sent to the last known address of the individual by first
class mail, postage prepaid. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-
2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-9: LATE FEES:
Failing to pay the total fines and costs within twenty-one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability and the exhaustion of or the failure
to exhaust any administrative review procedures as set forth in this chapter
shall result in the imposition of a late payment penalty fee as follows:
   A.   A late payment penalty fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be imposed
if the total fines and costs are paid more than twenty-one (21) days following
the issuance of the determination of liability but within forty-two ( 42) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability.
   B.   A late payment penalty fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) shall be
imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more than forty-two ( 42) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability but within sixty-three
(63) days following the issuance of the determination of liability.
   C.   A late payment penalty fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more than sixty-three (63) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-
2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-10: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, as
amended. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325,
4-11-2022)
2-15-11: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Nonresidents of this City who have been issued a vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation notice may contest the alleged violation on its
merits without personally appearing at an administrative hearing by:
   A.   Completing, in full, the "nonresident request for hearing" section of
the violation notice.
   B.   Signing the nonresident "request for hearing" in the space specified in
the violation notice and acknowledging that his personal appearance is waived
and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement filed by
him and the facts contained in the violation notice.
   C.   Filing the violation notice with the "request for hearing" section
fully completed with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the first through
the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month, if the
violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month.
The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator.
   D.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the administrator
postmarked by the 25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between
the first through the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the
month, if the violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the
prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
administrator. The acceptance of a "nonresident request for hearing" after the
due date or with cause is at the discretion of the administrator.
      1.   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts
set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as is
contained in the violation notice.
      2.   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served
upon the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
      3.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
      4.   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-
0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-12: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that remains unpaid after the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law, shall be considered a debt due and owing to
the City and enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Issues such as whether a violation occurred and the penalties that are
imposed may not be raised in any subsequent proceeding after the period for
judicial review has passed.
   C.   Any expenses incurred by a municipality to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, and costs related
to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the
City and may be collected in accordance with applicable law. However, prior to
any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer, the City shall provide notice to
the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before
the administrative hearing officer to determine whether the defendant has
failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a
hearing, which shall not be less than seven days from the date that notice is
served. If notice is served by mail, the seven day period shall begin to run on
the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as
provided in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by
the hearing officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena,
shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to
its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be enforceable only
through a court proceeding in 15th Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County,
Illinois, and shall be punishable by applicable law. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. It shall not be
a defense that a person came into compliance with an order, sought judicial
review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to its
effective date. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord.
22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-13: OTHER METHODS OF CODE AND ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not affect the validity of any other system of adjudication
authorized by state law and City of East Dubuque Ordinances. (Ord. 21-0108, 1-
11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-2022)
2-15-14: COLLECTIONS OF FINES AND COSTS:
All fines and other monies to be paid to the City in accordance with this
chapter shall be remitted to the City and deposited in the appropriate City
account as designated by the City administrator, or his or her designee.
Table of offenses subject to code hearing enforcement.
The table below provides a non-exhaustive list of ordinance violations subject
to adjudication under this chapter:
   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
ANIMAL VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION CITY CODE Initial Fine Step 2 Fee Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee
ANIMAL VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION           CITY CODE Initial Fine Step 2 Fee Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee
Running at large      8-2-1     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Cruelty to Animals    8-1-2     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Dangerous or Vicious  8-2-3     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Animals
Dogs disturbing the   8-2-4     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Peace
Ownership of Certain  8-2-5     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Animals
Presence in Cemetery  8-2-6     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Prohibited
Presence in City      8-2-8     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Playgrounds
Keeping of Certain    8-3-1     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Animals Restricted
Non-domesticate d     8-3-2     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Animals
Dangerous Animals     8-3-3     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Noisy Animals         8-3-4     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Animals Defecating on 8-3-5     $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $200.00
Property
 
PARKING VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION CITY CODE Initial Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Warning Min Fine Max Fine
                      Fee     Fee    Fee    Fee
PARKING VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION  CITY CODE Initial Step 2 Step 3 Step 4  Warning Min Fine Max Fine
                       Fee     Fee    Fee    Fee
Parking in   10-3-1(a) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Alleys
Parking
Vehicles for
Sale;        10-3-1(b) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Peddling
Merchandise
All Night    10-3-1(c) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking
Cab Stands;  10-3-1(d) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Bus Stands
Time Limit
Parking in   10-3-2    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Residential
Areas
Parking
during       10-3-3    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Snowfall
Parking to
Unload       10-3-4    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Trucks
Loading      10-3-5    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Zones
Signs Posted 10-3-6    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Recreational
Vehicle      10-3-8    $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking and
Storage
Seasonal
Street       10-3-10   $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Sweeping
Parallel     10-4-6(a) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking Only
Angle
Parking      10-4-6(b) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Permitted
Parking
Prohibited   10-4-6(c) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
on Certain
Streets
No Parking
Areas and    10-4-6(d) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Tow Away
Zones
Time Limit   10-4-6(e) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking
Parking
Pickup       10-4-6(f) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Trucks and
Vans
Truck and
Trailer      10-4-6(g) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking
Prohibited
Motorcycle   10-4-6(h) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Parking
Parking in
Handicapped  10-4-6(i) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Persons
Parking at
Community    10-4-6(j) $25.00  $10.00 $85.00 $130.00 False   $25.00   $500.00
Center
 
COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION CITY CODE Initial Step 2 Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee Min Fine Max Fine
                      Fee     Fee
COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS
DESCRIPTION       CITY CODE Initial Step 2  Step 3  Step 4  Min Fine Max Fine
                            Fee     Fee     Fee     Fee
Prostitution;
Disorderly Houses 7-3-1(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $120.00  $750.00
and Patronizing
Same
Soliciting for    7-3-1(b)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $120.00  $750.00
Prostitution
Gambling,
Gambling Houses,
Lotteries, Fraud:
It shall be
unlawful for any
person to gamble;
to operate,
conduct or manage
a gambling house
or permit a
gambling house to
be operated,
conducted or
managed; to
operate, conduct
or manage a       7-3-2(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $120.00  $750.00
lottery or to
permit a lottery
to be operated,
conducted or
managed; and it
shall be unlawful
for any person to
operate or
utilize any
fraudulent
devices or
practices for the
purpose of
obtaining money
or property.
Loitering         7-3-3     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Obstructing       7-2-1     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Justice
Aid in Escape     7-2-2     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Liquor License    3-3-3     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
and Compliance
Sales to Certain
Persons           3-3-18(a) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Prohibited
Person(s) under
the age of
twenty-one        3-3-18(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
purchasing or
attempting to
purchase
Misrepresentation 3-3-18(c) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
of age
Printed care      3-3-18(d) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
placement
Loitering by
Persons under     3-3-19(a) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
twenty-one years
Permitting
Loitering by      3-3-19(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Persons under
twenty-one years
Evidence of       3-3-1(c)  $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Loitering
Peddling          3-3-20(a) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Open Container    3-3-20(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
                  (1)
Open Container    3-3-20(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
                  (2)
Purchase or
Acceptance of
Gift of Liquor by 3-3-17(a) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Persons not of
age
Identification
Cards: If a
licensee or his
agents or
employees
believes or has
reason to believe
that a sale or
delivery of any
alcoholic liquor
is prohibited
because of the
nonage of the
prospective
recipient, he     3-3-17(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
shall, before     (1)
making such a
sale or delivery,
demand
presentation of
some form of
positive
identification,
containing proof
of age, issued by
a public officer
in the
performance of
his official
duties.
Identification
Cards: No person
shall transfer,
alter or deface
such an
identification
card; use the
identification
card of another,
carry or use a
false or forged
identification
card by means of
false             3-3-17(b) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
information. No   (2)
person shall
purchase, accept
delivery or have
possession of
alcoholic liquor
in violation of
this section. The
consumption of
alcoholic liquor
by any person
under twenty-one
(21) years of age
is forbidden.
Religious
Services and      3-3-17(c) $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Adult Supervision
at Home
Public            7-5-3(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $250.00  $750.00
Intoxication
Disorderly
Conduct           7-5-1(a)  $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Prohibited
Any Act in such
unreasonable
manner as to      7-5-1(b)
alarm, disturb,   (1)       $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
or annoy another
person and to
provoke a breach
Transmits in any
manner to the
fire department
of any city,
town, village or
fire protection
district a false
alarm of fire,    7-5-1(b)  $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
knowing at the    (2)
time of such
transmission that
there is no
reasonable
grounds for
believing that
such fire exists.
Transmits in any
manner to another
person a false
alarm to the
effect to bomb or
an explosive of
any nature is
concealed in such
that its
explosion would
endanger human    7-5-1(b)  $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
life, knowing at  (3)
the time of such
transmission that
there is no
reasonable
grounds for
believing that
such bomb or
explosive is
concealed in any
such place.
Transmits in any
manner to any
peace officer,
public officer or
public employee a
report to the
effect that an
offense has been
committed,        7-5-1(b)
knowing at the    (4)       $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
time of such
transmission that
there is no
reasonable
grounds for
believing that
such an offense
has been
committed.
Enter upon the
property of
another and for a
lewd or unlawful
purpose
deliberately      7-5-1(b)  $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
looks into a      (5)
dwelling on the
property through
any window or
other opening in
it
Disturbing the    7-5-2     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Peace
Fighting          7-5-4     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Discharge of      7-6-1(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Firearms
Discharge of      7-6-1(b)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
other weapon(s)
Age and Hour      7-7-1(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Restrictions
Responsibility    7-7-1(b)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
for Minor
Employment of     7-7-2     $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Minor
Child Sex
Offender          7-9-2     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Residency
Restrictions
Opening Hours -   3-3-9(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
2:00 A.M.         (3)(1)
Opening Hours -   3-3-9(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
3:30 A.M.         (2)(1)
Opening Hours-    3-32-9(c) $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Christmas Eve     (1)
Possession of     7-1-1     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Cannabis
Possession of
Drug              7-1-1     $250.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $250.00  $750.00
Paraphernalia
Failure to Pay    10-3-9(a) $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Parking Fines
Nuisance
Declared; Weed    5-4-1     $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Prohibited
Height            5-4-2     $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Restrictions
Possession, Sale
and Use of        5-5-2     $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Firearms
Littering         5-3-1     $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Unauthorized
Removal of        5-2-1     $500.00 $500.00                 $500.00  $500.00
Recyclables
Prohibited
Use of Collection
Locations         5-2-2     $500.00 $500.00                 $500.00  $500.00
Restricted
Common Law        5-1-1(a)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Nuisances
Animal Carcasses;
Offal: To cause
the carcass of
any animal or any
offal, filth or
noisome substance
to be collected,  5-1-1(b)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
deposited or      (1)
remain in any
place under his
ownership or
control to the
prejudice of
others.
To throw or
deposit any offal
or other
offensive matter,
or the carcass of
any dead animal   5-1-1(b)
in any            (2)       $150.00 $100,00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
watercourse,
lake, pond,
spring, well or
common sewer,
street or public
highway.
Polluting Water   5-1-1(c)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Stagnant Water    5-1-1(d)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Garbage           5-1-1(e)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Accumulation
Obstruction       5-1-1(f)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Public Ways
Obstructing Views 5-1-1(g)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
at Intersections
Offensive         5-1-1(h)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Business
Unauthorized      5-1-1(i)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Advertisements
Dumping and/or
burning ashes,
junk vehicles,    5-1-1(g)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
miscellaneous
waste
Junk Storage      5-1-1(k)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Dangerous         5-1-1(l)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
Buildings
Animal Pests      5-1-1(m)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
                  (1)
Noisy, Offensive
Conditions: To
produce or permit
to be produced,
whether on public
or private
property, any
loud, excessive,
frequent,         5-1-1(1)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
continuous or
offensive noise
to the
disturbance of
the peace or
quiet of any
person residing
in the vicinity.
To use, operate,
or permit to be
played, used or
operated any
radio or
television
receiving set,
musical
instrument,
phonograph, or
other machine or
device for the
producing or
reproducing of
sound in such
manner as to
disturb the
peace, quiet and  5-1-1(2)  $150.00 $100.00 $200.00 $600.00 $125.00  $750.00
comfort of
neighboring
inhabitants or,
at any time, with
louder volume
than is necessary
for convenient
hearing for the
person who is in
the room, vehicle
or chamber in
which such
machine or devise
is operated and
who is a
voluntary
listener thereto.
 
(Ord. 21-0108, 1-11-2021; amd. Ord. 21-0513, 5-10-2021; Ord. 22-0325, 4-11-
2022)
2-15-15: FORFEITURE OF EVIDENCE:
Failure to pay the total fines and costs within twenty-one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability, and failure to exhaust any
administrative review procedures within thirty-five (35) days from the issuance
of the determination of liability, shall result in the imposition of a late
payment penalty fee and results in forfeiture of rights as follows:
After the expiration of thirty-five (35) days, including the thirty-five (35)
day period for administrative review, if the total fines and costs remain
unpaid, no appeal has been filed, and the property associated with the
violation has not been claimed, the city may dispose of the property by auction
or destruction. Any person who fails to claim the property within this period
shall forfeit any right to claim the property, which will then be considered
abandoned and forfeited to the City.
The appeal period tolls the deadline for property disposition, and the deadline
will begin running again after the appeal process is complete. (Ord. 25-0324,
3-17-2025)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax; Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax (Rep. by Ord. 05-0306, 3-7-2005, eff.
7-1-2005)
3-1-3: Municipal Utility Tax
3-1-4: Electricity Use Tax
3-1-5: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-1-6: Telecommunications Tax
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX; MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Taxes Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled and registered with an agency of this state's
government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen as an incident
to a sale of service. This "nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax"
and this "nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax" shall not be
applicable to the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed
off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
The imposition of these nonhome rule taxes is in accordance with the provisions
of sections 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4, respectively, of the Illinois municipal code
1 .
   B.   Collection; Enforcement: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The department
of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section. (Ord. 05-0306, 3-7-2005, eff. 7-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3, 5/8-11-1.4.
3-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-0306, 3-7-2005, eff. 7-1-2005)
3-1-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, electricity, or water for use or consumption and not
for resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord., 8-
4-1980, eff. 10-1-1980; amd. Ord. 02-0716, 7-15-2002)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: (Ord., 8-4-1980, eff. 10-1-1980)
      1.   (Rep. by Ord. 02-0716, 7-15-2002)
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of three percent (3%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the city and not for resale, at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
gross receipts therefrom.
      4.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom. (Ord., 8-4-1980, eff. 10-1-1980)
   C.   Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" 1 , authorized
by 65 Illinois Complied Statutes 5/8-11-1. (Ord., 8-4-1980, eff. 10-1-1980;
amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Tax Is Additional: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money, or value of products or services furnished to the city by the taxpayer
as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   E.   Tax Returns:
      1.   On or before January 31, 1981, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the city clerk for the months of October, November, and December 1980, stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the city clerk for a corresponding three
(3) month period.
      3.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city clerk the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Overpayments Credited: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   G.   Limitation On Collection Of Tax: No action to recover any amount of tax
due under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount. (Ord., 8-4-1980, eff. 10-1-1980)
   H.   Violations; Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due, plus interest at the statutory rate. (Ord., 8-4-1980, eff.
10-1-1980; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-1-4: ELECTRICITY USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Amount Per  Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Amount Per  Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                $0.221
Next 48,000                                0.145
Next 50,000                                0.130
Next 400,000                               0.127
Next 500,000                               0.123
Next 2,000,000                             0.116
Next 2,000,000                             0.114
Next 5,000,000                             0.112
Next 10,000,000                            0.110
All in excess of 20,000,000                0.109
 
      2.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection A1 of this section shall be effective:
         a.   On April 1, 1999, for residential customers; and
         b.   On the earlier of: 1) the last bill issued prior to December 31,
2000; or 2) the date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/16-104, for nonresidential customers.
      3.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, section
3-1-3 of this chapter (commonly known as the gross receipts utility tax) shall
specifically remain in effect:
         a.   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until March
30, 1999; and
         b.   For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the
earlier of: 1) through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or 2)
the date of the first bill issued to such nonresidential customer pursuant to
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection A shall not be effective until
April 1, 1999.
   B.   Exemptions From Tax: None of the taxes authorized by this section may
be imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise
to the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by the state or any political subdivision thereof, nor shall any persons
engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or
transmitting gas, water, or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal
retailers' occupation tax act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any person
engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like
manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same
class in the city, whether privately or city owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the city.
   C.   Tax Is Additional: The tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   D.   Collection Of Tax: The tax authorized by this section shall be
collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in
the state who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity
to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the
original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to this section and any such tax collected by a person
delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to the city by such person
delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the
tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering
the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add
to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to
reimburse the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the city upon request. If the person delivering electricity
fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be
required to pay the tax directly to the city in the manner prescribed by the
city. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this section
shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the city the amount of the tax
collected pursuant to this section.
   E.   Report Required; Payment Of Tax:
      1.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this section to a person delivering electricity as set
forth in subsection D of this section and who is not otherwise exempted from
paying such tax shall make a return to the city treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Overpayments Credited: If it shall appear than an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   G.   Limitation On Collection Of Tax: No action to recover any amount of tax
due under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount. (Ord., 2-1-1999)
   H.   Violation; Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due 1 .
   I.   Effect Of Provisions: In the event that public act 90-561 is declared
unconstitutional, or if subsection A of this section is voided by court action,
subsection
3-1-3B3 of this chapter shall remain in effect in all respects as if it had
never been amended by this section, and any amounts paid to the city by any
person delivering electricity pursuant to this section shall be deemed to have
been paid pursuant to the gross receipts utility tax as it existed prior to the
effective date hereof. (Ord., 2-1-1999; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-1-5: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Tax Or License Fee Imposed: All corporations, companies and
associations not incorporated under the laws of the state, and which are
engaged in the city in effecting and soliciting fire insurance, shall pay to
the city treasurer on July 15, 1917, and annually thereafter upon July 15 in
each succeeding year, a sum equal to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts of
premiums received by such corporation, company, or association, or its agency
or agents, for business effected or transacted for fire insurance within the
city for the year ending July 1 preceding said date. The sum above named shall
be as a tax or license fee upon all such corporations, companies or
associations transacting said business within the city.
   B.   Report Required: Every person, acting as agent or otherwise for or upon
behalf of any such corporation, company or association, shall, on or before the
July 15, 1917, and July 15 of each succeeding year, render to the city clerk a
full, true and just account, verified by oath, of all the premiums which,
during the year ending on July 1, 1917, and July 1 of each succeeding year,
shall have been received by him, or any other person for him, in behalf of any
such corporation, company or association, and shall fully and specifically set
forth in the report the amount received as premiums for fire insurance.
   C.   Payment Of Tax Or License Fee: The agent or agents shall also, at the
time of making of the above mentioned report, pay to the city treasurer the sum
of two percent (2%) upon the gross receipts of such corporation, company or
association obtained as premiums for effecting fire insurance in the city, as
is specified in subsection A of this section.
   D.   Failure To Pay Tax Or Fee: If such account be not rendered on or before
the day herein designated for that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for
said tax or license fee shall remain unpaid after that date, it shall be
unlawful for any such corporation, company or association to transact any
business of fire insurance in the city until requirements hereof have been
fully complied with, but this provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation or association from the payments of any risk that may be taken in
violation hereof.
   E.   Disposition Of Revenues: Any and all sums so received under the
provisions hereof shall form and constitute a fund to be kept separate by the
city treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department of
the city, and such money shall be paid to the fire department upon orders drawn
by the authority of the city council. (Ord., 8-1-1916)
   F.   Penalty: If any corporation, company or association shall fail to
render the account or report herein designated by the day required by this
section, or if the above mentioned rates as a tax or license fee shall remain
unpaid after July 15 of each and every year hereafter, every such corporation,
company, or association, shall forfeit and pay to the city the penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, upon conviction, for each and every offense, and in
addition to such penalty, the city shall recover, in an action, in its name,
for its use, against any such corporation, company or association so failing to
make such report or pay such license fee or tax, the full amount of said
license fee, which would be due under the provisions hereof. (Ord., 8-1-1916;
amd. 2001 Code)
3-1-6: TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of the taxes authorized by this section:
    AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
city regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   CITY: The city of East Dubuque, Illinois, a municipal corporation.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature, and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of such
telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or service costs or
any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount thereof
shall be included only as and when paid. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section, b) additional charges added to
a purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the public utilities act, c)
the tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act, or d) the tax imposed
by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
      2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunications received outside of
the city;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of
the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the department of commerce and community affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made); or
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, public and private colleges and universities, including
state universities created by statute, federal and state governments or any
city, town, county, or other political subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The city may, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who to the satisfaction of
the city, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the
tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such
tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect the
tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the city in the
same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a
place of business within the city.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, and
irrespective of whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries, when the tax has already been paid to a retailer and the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. If this is not a defined location, as in
the case of mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunication equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his agents, employees, or
permittees engages in an act or privilege of originating in the city or
receiving in the city telecommunications and who incurs a tax liability under
this section.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: 1. In addition to the usual and popular meaning,
includes, but is not limited to, messages or information transmitted through
use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange services, cellular mobile
telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging service,
or any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities.
      2.   The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission.
      3.   "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him to the ultimate retail consumer
who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
      4.   Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold and subsequently
used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications
service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on the following acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five percent (5%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. However, such tax is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by municipalities in this
state.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five percent (5%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection B, any taxpayer,
upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to this subsection
to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other
state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or
local tax in this state. However, such tax is not imposed on the act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by
municipalities in this state.
   C.   Collection:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and making
or effectuating the sale at retail and shall be remitted by such retailer to
the city. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this section and any
such tax collected by such retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the city. Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by
adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications when sold for use. The tax shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the retailer who provides such taxable services until paid,
and if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge
for such taxable services. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
city. Whenever possible, the tax shall, when collected, be stated as a distinct
item separate and apart from the gross charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Resale Number:
      1.   If a person, who originates or receives telecommunications in the
city claims to be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall
apply to the city for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which
will show the city why such applicant is not liable for tax under this section
on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional information as the
city may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the city shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
city may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation, or
which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of sending or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the city and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being for resale.
   E.   Returns, Filing, Contents, Payment Of Tax: Each retailer shall make a
return to the city clerk's office for that month stating:
      1.   Retailer's name;
      2.   Retailer's principal place of business;
      3.   The gross charges during that month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the city may
require.
   F.   Monthly Returns: On or before the last day of each month thereafter,
each retailer shall make a like return to the city clerk's office for each one
month period; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if
he or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon the total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any difference between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   G.   Payment Included: The retailer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return pay to the city the amount of tax
herein imposed.
   H.   Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   I.   Books And Records Of Retailer: Every retailer under this section shall
keep books, records and other documents which are adequate to reflect that the
tax imposed by this section is being collected in the proper amount. All books
and records and other papers and documents required by this section to be kept
shall, at all times during business hours of the day, be subject to inspection
by the city or its duly authorized agents and employees. Books and records
reflecting gross charges during any period with respect to which the tax is
imposed shall be preserved until the expiration of three (3) years following
the period the tax was incurred, unless the city, in writing, authorizes their
destruction or disposal at an earlier date.
   J.   Failure To Make Return Or Fraudulent Return: Any retailer who fails to
make a return, or to pay the tax in a timely manner, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 02-
0716, 7-15-2002)
CHAPTER 2
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Recitals Incorporated
3-2-2: Adoption Of Fee
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
3-2-5: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
3-2-6: Compliance With Other Laws
3-2-7: Existing Franchises And Licenses
3-2-8: Waiver And Fee Implementation
3-2-9: Enforcement And Penalty
3-2-1: RECITALS INCORPORATED:
The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the ordinance dated
November 2, 1998, on file in the office of the city clerk and codified herein,
are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this
chapter. (Ord., 11-2-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
3-2-2: ADOPTION OF FEE:
A telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby adopted as
provided in this chapter. (Ord., 11-2-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the city, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within the
city, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office channel
provided within the city. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
1) the fee imposed by this chapter; 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public utilities act 1 ;
3) amounts collected under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-17; 4) the tax
imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act 2 ; 5) 911 surcharges; or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the city;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulation equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time-sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the city;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices; or
   I.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the city.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any municipal street, alley, body of water or public right
of way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the city or any other entity has acquired the right and
authority to locate or permit the location of utilities consistent with
telecommunications facilities. "Public right of way" shall not include any real
or personal city property that is not specifically described in the previous
sentence and shall not include city buildings and other structures or
improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the public right of
way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this state under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this state.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for his use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter services, computer
exchange services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include "wireless
telecommunications" as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for services through a
cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
sections 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Any telecommunications retailer; and
   B.   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making "sales of telecommunications at
retail", as defined in this section. The city may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the city, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the city.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
telecommunications act of 1996 (public law no. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord., 11-2-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.
3-2-4: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   A.   Registration Required: Every "telecommunications provider", as defined
by this chapter, shall register with the city within thirty (30) days after the
effective date hereof or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is
later, on a form to be provided by the city; provided however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to this chapter
shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   B.   Amended Registration; Current Information: Every telecommunications
provider who has registered with the city pursuant to subsection A of this
section has an affirmative duty to submit an amended registration form or
current return as required by subsection
3-2-5C3 of this chapter, as the case may be, to the city within thirty (30)
days from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided
by the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent
return on file with the city. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed; Amount: A city telecommunications infrastructure
maintenance fee is hereby imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the
amount of one percent (1.0%) of all gross charges charged by the
telecommunications retailer to service addresses within the City for
telecommunications originating or received in the city. The fee may be imposed
in quarter percent increments of not more than one percent (1.0%).
   B.   Scope Of Fee: Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance
fee authorized in this chapter, the city infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the city by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   Collection, Administration And Enforcement Of Fee: The city
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee authorized by this section
shall be collected, enforced, and administered as follows:
      1.   Collection Of Fee From Customer: A telecommunications retailer shall
charge to and collect from each customer an additional charge in an amount
equal to the city infrastructure maintenance fee attributable to that
customer's service address.
      2.   Payment Of Fee To City: Unless otherwise approved by the city, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the
month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the city infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself
for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee. (Ord., 11-2-
1998)
      3.   Return Required: Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to
the city shall be accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the
city council. (Ord., 11-2-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   Fee Is A Debt: Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be
collected pursuant to this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee
collected by such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by
the telecommunications retailer to the city. The charge imposed under
subsection C1 of this section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to
this chapter shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications
retailer who provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable
at law in the same manner as the original charge for such services.
      5.   Credit For Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of
infrastructure maintenance fee has been paid that was not due under the
provisions of this chapter, whether as a result of a mistake of fact or an
error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any infrastructure
maintenance fee due, or to become due, under this chapter, from the
telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous payment; provided, however,
the city council may request, and telecommunications retailer shall provide,
written substantiation for such credit. However, no claim for such credit may
be made more than three (3) years after the date of the erroneous payment
unless: a) the credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the city within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and b) the
credit derives from an overpayment made by the same telecommunications retailer
during the applicable statutory period of limitations.
      6.   Restrictions On Tax Base Inclusions: Amounts paid under this chapter
by telecommunications retailers shall not be included in the tax base under any
of the following acts as described immediately below:
         a.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the telecommunications excise tax
act. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
         b.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2.
         c.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-17. (Ord., 11-2-1998;
amd. 2001 Code)
         d.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue
of public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the public utilities act.
      7.   Account Audit; Penalty For Underpayment: The city shall have the
right, in its discretion, to audit the books and records of all
telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter to determine whether the
telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the city for the city
infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the amount of the city
infrastructure maintenance fee due to the city by the telecommunications
retailer shall be paid to the city plus five percent (5%) of the total amount
of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs incurred by the city
in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed five percent (5%) of the
total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall be paid
to the city within twenty one (21) days after the date of issuance of an
invoice for same.
      8.   Additional Regulations: The city council, or their designee, may
promulgate such further or additional regulations concerning the administration
and enforcement of this chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be
required from time to time, and shall notify all telecommunications retailers
that are registered pursuant to section
3-2-4 of this chapter of such regulations. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
3-2-6: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person from obligations imposed under
any law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Generally applicable taxes; and
   B.   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or repair
of the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
   C.   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   D.   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning uses
or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord., 11-2-
1998)
3-2-7: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the city entered into before the effective date hereof regarding
the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according to and for their
stated terms except for any fees, charges or other compensation to the extent
waived. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
3-2-8: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   Waiver Of Fee:
      1.   The city hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the city by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing city franchise, license,
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
city imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This waiver
shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance fee
provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
      2.   The city clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the city
has a franchise. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
   B.   Implementation Of Fee: The city infrastructure maintenance fee provided
for in this chapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the
month not less than ninety (90) days after the city provides written notice by
certified mail to each telecommunications retailer with whom the city has an
existing franchise, license, or similar agreement that the city waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the city. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord., 11-2-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
3-2-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this
code 1 .
   B.   Additional Remedies: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
limiting any additional or further remedies that the city may have for
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord., 11-2-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-3: License And Compliance Required
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: Persons Ineligible For License
3-3-6: Insurance Required
3-3-7: Investigations And Examinations
3-3-8: Term Of License; Fee Prorated
3-3-9: Classification Of Licenses; Fees; Hours Of Operation
3-3-10: Disposition Of Fees
3-3-11: Number Of Licenses
3-3-12: List Of Licenses
3-3-13: Nontransferability Of License
3-3-14: License Renewals
3-3-15: Location And Premises Requirements
3-3-16: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-17: Purchase, Acceptance Of Gift And/Or Consumption Of Liquor By Persons
Not Of Age
3-3-18: Sales To, Possession Or Consumption By Certain Persons
3-3-19: Loitering
3-3-20: Miscellaneous Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-3-21: Revocation Of License
3-3-22: Violations And Penalties
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Alcohol spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues; and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the mayor, at the time of
its application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of
names and residences of its members, and similarly shall within ten (10) days
of the election of any additional member, file such additional member's name
and address with the mayor. Its affairs and management are conducted by a board
of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at
their annual meeting, and no member or any officer, agent or employee of the
club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or other
compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the club or the members of the club or guests introduced by members beyond the
amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the
members or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the general
revenue of the club.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale. (Ord. 00-
0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 19-1210, 12-16-2019)
3-3-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The mayor is hereby authorized to be the local liquor control commissioner and
shall be charged with the administration of the dram shop act, chapter 235 of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes, and of such ordinances and resolutions relating
to alcoholic liquor as may be needed. The mayor may appoint a person to assist
him in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided for
such local liquor control commissioner. Furthermore, pursuant to chapter 235 of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the mayor authorizes any East Dubuque police
officer to enter a dram shop in the city to determine compliance with this
chapter and the liquor control act of the state 1 . For purposes of this
chapter, the use of the word "mayor" shall be synonymous with liquor control
commissioner. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-3-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city
any alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail for consumption
on the premises any nonalcoholic beverage or ice, knowing the same to be
intended to be mixed with any alcoholic liquor, except on premises licenses for
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 00-
0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 19-1210, 12-16-2019)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Applications for such licenses required by this chapter shall
be made to the mayor in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or
by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath
or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
      1.   The name, date of birth, and address of the applicant in the case of
an individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name
and address of such person.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if, a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
      4.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
      5.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
      6.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      7.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
      8.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the state, or the ordinances of the city.
      9.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
      10.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the city in the conduct
of his place of business.
      11.   The date of incorporation if a state corporation, or the date of
becoming qualified under the state business corporation act 1  to transact
business in the state, if a foreign corporation.
      12.   He has not received or borrowed money or anything else of value,
and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value other
than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business for a period not
to exceed ninety (90) days, directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer,
importing distributor or distributor representative of any such manufacturer,
importing distributor or distributor, not be a party in any way, directly or
indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing
distributor, of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-6. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
   B.   Other Information: In addition to the information in subsection A of
this section, such application shall contain such other and further information
as the local commission may, by rule or regulation not inconsistent with law,
prescribe, including submission of authorization of release of sales tax
information form for the preceding business year. (Ord. 06-0311, 3-20-2006)
   C.   Required Signatures: If the application is made in behalf of a
partnership, firm, association, club or corporation, then the application shall
be signed and sworn to by at least two (2) members of such partnership or the
president and secretary of such corporation. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3-3-5: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No such license required by this chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the mayor determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the mayor's investigation. The burden of proof
of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this chapter would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   H.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
under this chapter for any reason other than citizenship and residence within
the political subdivision.
   J.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the state business corporation act
to transact business in the state.
   K.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the date of passage of the liquor control act 1 , or shall have
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   L.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   M.   In addition to restrictions pursuant to Illinois state code 2 .
   N.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   O.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3 of the state criminal
code, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory
provisions.
   P.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act 3  or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act 4
.
   Q.   Any person, association, or cotporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 13-0508, 5-6-2013;
Ord. 23-0619, 6-19-2023)
 
Notes
1    235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2    235 ILCS 5/4.
3    230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
4    230 ILCS 20/1.1 et seq.
3-3-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Generally: It is hereby required that all dramshop license holders shall obtain
a dramshop insurance policy in the amount of at least five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for the period of their liquor license with the city.
Furthermore, each dramshop license holder shall name the city as a certificate
holder on said dramshop policy. At the time of the application for the liquor
license or the renewal, the liquor license applicant, shall provide evidence of
such insurance upon application for or renewal of each license. (Ord. 19-1210,
12-16-2019)
3-3-7: INVESTIGATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant And Fee: It shall be the duty of the chief
of police to cause an investigation of each applicant, including fingerprints,
and to report in writing within thirty (30) days to the liquor commissioner as
to the applicant's character and qualifications as provided in this chapter. No
license shall be issued to the new applicant until such report has been
completed and filed with the liquor commissioner. This process can take up to
eight (8) weeks to complete. The liquor license application will be placed on
the next available city council agenda for approval/denial. A nonrefundable
investigation fee ($50.00) must be paid at the time of submittal to process
request. (Ord. 16-0417, 4-18-2016)
   B.   Examination Of Applicants And Licensees: The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any
licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the
manner hereinafter provided within this chapter and/or State Statute, and to
examine or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or
licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his information in the
performance of his duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall
be effective in any part of the State. For the purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this
subsection, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-
15-2000)
3-3-8: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE PRORATED:
Each license shall terminate on December 31 next following its issuance. If a
licensee fails to pay the annual fee or if the payment received is not
sufficient, the fee will be surcharged twenty five percent (25%) and the
license will be suspended until payment has been received by City Hall. (Ord.
16-0417, 4-18-2016)
3-3-9: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   General Licenses: Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in the City shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be
divided into the following classes: (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 06-
0911, 9-18-2006; Ord. 10-1115, 11-15-2010)
      1.   Class A License:
         a.   Scope: A Class A license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in package form, but not for consumption on the premises where
sold. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand six
hundred dollars ($1,600.00), effective November 14, 2019. (Ord. 06-0911, 9-18-
2006)
         c.   Closing Hours; Restricted Sales:
         (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor as a Class A
license holder between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and five o’clock
(5:00) A.M.
         (2)   A holder of a Class A liquor license shall be permitted to sell
nonalcoholic beverages and other consumer items to the general public during
the hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor or beverages is prohibited. During
the hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor or beverages is prohibited, all
displays of alcohol, cabinets, coolers, or other types of storage units
containing alcohol shall be covered and/or locked tight and be inaccessible to
anyone including the establishment’s employees.
      2.   Class B License:
         a.   Scope: A Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of the license holder as well
as for retail sale for consumption off the premises.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be three thousand
eight hundred dollars ($3,800.00), effective November 14, 2019.
         c.   Closing Hours:
         (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor as a Class B
license holder between the hours of three thirty o’clock (3:30) A.M. and five
o’clock (5:00) A.M.
         (2)   A holder of a Class B liquor license shall be allowed to have no
more than three (3) employees and one owner on the premises for one and one-
half (1.5) hours after the closing hour of three thirty o’clock (3:30) A.M.
These four (4) people shall be allowed to be present on the premises for the
sole purpose of cleaning up after the dramshop’s patrons and other employees
have exited.
   (3)   The dramshop owner, manager, and/or employees may enter the dramshop
at four o’clock (4:00) A.M. for the purpose of preparing for daily business,
provided the doors remain locked until five o’clock (5:00) A.M.
      3.   Class C License:
         a.   Scope: A Class C license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of the license holder as well
as for retail sale for consumption off the premises.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand six
hundred dollars ($1,600.00), effective November 14, 2019.
         c.   Closing Hours:
         (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor as a Class C
license holder between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and five o’clock
(5:00) A.M.
         (2)   A holder of a Class C liquor license shall be allowed to have no
more than three (3) employees and one owner on the premises for one and one-
half (1.5) hours after the closing hour of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. These four
(4) people shall be allowed to be present on the premises for the sole purpose
of cleaning up after the dramshop’s patrons and other employees have exited.
         (3)   The dramshop owner, manager, and/or employees may enter the
dramshop at four o’clock (4:00) A.M. for the purpose of preparing for daily
business, provided the doors remain locked until five o’clock (5:00) A.M.
      4.   Class D License:
         a.   Scope:
         (1)   Specified Areas: A Class D license shall authorize the
consumption of beer and wine only in a specified enclosed or fenced off area
designated in the license. The specified enclosed or fenced off area shall be
fully and clearly defined in the application for a Class D license, and such
licensed area shall be clearly marked and enclosed so that the general public
and law enforcement officers can easily and without difficulty determine the
limits of the licensed area.
         (2)   Applicant Organization: Applicants shall be legally recognized
religious, charitable or not for profit organizations or an accredited
organization organized for nonpecuniary purposes acceptable to the Liquor
Commissioner and subject to the same investigation as provided for in this
section as are applicants for any other class of alcoholic liquor licenses.
Furthermore, the applicants shall only be issued a license if the event is in
connection with a fair, carnival, bazaar, picnic or a similar event open to the
public and the event promotes the aims and objectives of the above
organizations for nonpecuniary purposes.
         (3)   Authority Of Law Enforcement And City Officers: The City, County
or State police shall have full access to all areas within the licensed
premises, and the Liquor Commissioner and/or law enforcement officers may, at
his/their sole discretion and judgment, order the sale, dispensing and
consumption of beer and wine halted if, in his/their opinion, any of the
provisions of this section are being violated and the public peace is likely to
be endangered by the keeping open of premises licensed hereunder.
         b.   Fee: The license fee for a Class D license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per day for which such license shall be issued, and such fee shall not
be waived, effective November 14, 2019.
         c.   Application Of Other Provisions: All regulations that are part of
this chapter shall apply in the same manner and degree as they apply to all
other classes of licenses described herein.
      5.   Class E License:
         a.   Scope; Hours Sales Permitted: Class E liquor licenses shall
authorize consumption of beer and wine between the hours of five o’clock (5:00)
A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight in a specified enclosed or fenced off
area for a special event or celebration hosted by for profit sponsors or
promoters.
         b.   Licensee Restricted; Fee: Class E liquor licenses shall only be
issued to current East Dubuque liquor license holders, and the license fee
shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day and shall not be waived.
         c.   Site Requirements; Authority Of Law Enforcement And City
Officers: The enclosed or specified fenced off area shall be fully and clearly
defined in the application and also be clearly marked and enclosed so that law
enforcement officers can easily and without difficulty identify the physical
area. Law enforcement officers shall have full access to all areas within the
licensed premises. The liquor control commissioner and/or law enforcement
officers may, at their soul discretion, order the sale, dispensing and
consumption of beer and alcohol halted if, in their opinion, any of the
provisions of this section are violated and the public peace is likely to be
endangered by keeping the premises licensed hereunder.
         d.   Application Of Other Provisions: All regulations that are part of
this section shall apply in the same manner and degree as they apply to other
classes of licenses as described herein.
      6.   Class H License:
         a.   Scope: A Class H license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of the license holder as well
as for retail sale for consumption off the premises.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be eight hundred
dollars ($800.00), effective November 23, 2020.
         c.   Closing Hours:
         (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor as a Class H
license holder between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o’clock (5:00) A.M.
         (2)   A holder of a Class H liquor license shall be allowed to have no
more than three (3) employees and one owner on the premises for one and one-
half (1.5) hours after the closing hour of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. These
four (4) people shall be allowed to be present on the premises for the sole
purpose of cleaning up after the dramshop’s patrons and other employees have
exited.
               (3)   The dramshop owner, manager, and/or employees may enter
the dramshop at four o’clock (4:00) A.M. for the purpose of preparing for daily
business, provided the doors remain locked until five o’clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   Supplemental Licenses: Upon application to the local liquor control
commissioner by a license holder, the following supplemental licenses may be
issued after approval by the city council and the payment of the fees set forth
herein:
      1.   Subclass (1):
         a.   Scope: A subclass (1) supplemental license shall be obtained by a
license holder if the local liquor control commissioner and/or his designee
determines that the exterior facade of a building, from a physical appearance,
has a look of two (2) separate buildings, the business operates under the same
license holder and the business is advertising the on premises signs under two
(2) separate entities.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such supplemental license shall be fifty
percent (50%) of license holder’s general alcoholic license fee.
      2.   Subclass (3): Outdoor consumption areas (OCAs):
         a.   Scope: Restricted to Class B and Class C licensed establishments
on same property as licensed premises.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be one hundred twenty-
five dollars ($125.00) effective November 14, 2019. (Ord. 08-0608, 6-2-2008)
         c.   Hours Sales Permitted: Hours of operation must match hours of
current license. Outdoor music allowed until midnight (12:00) A.M.
         d.   Site Requirements:
         (1)   The enclosed or specified fenced off area shall be fully and
clearly defined in the application and also be clearly marked and enclosed so
that law enforcement officers can easily and without difficulty identify the
physical area.
         (2)   Temporary bars staffed at all times; no coolers or self-serve.
         (3)   Outdoor lighting cannot be taller than twelve feet (12') in
height and cannot shine out of the specified area.
         (4)   OCA cannot be greater than fifty percent (50%) of the gross
floor area of the adjoining licensed premises and no rooftop OCAs allowed.
         (5)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) unless accompanied by
their parent or legal guardian.
         (6)   Refer to building restrictions under title 15, chapter 8 of this
Code.
         e.   Application Of Other Provisions: Authority of law enforcement and
City officers: Law enforcement officers shall have full access to all areas
within the licensed premises. All regulations that are part of this chapter
shall apply in the same manner and degree as they apply to all other classes of
licenses described herein.
      3.   Subclass (4): Outdoor special events:
         a.   Scope: Restricted licensed establishments.
         b.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) effective June 1, 2009.
         c.   Hours Sales Permitted: Hours of operation must match hours of
current license. Outdoor music allowed until midnight (12:00) A.M.
         d.   Site Requirements:
         (1)   The enclosed or specified fenced off area shall be fully and
clearly defined in the application and also be clearly marked and enclosed so
that law enforcement officers can easily and without difficulty identify the
physical area. Roadway must at all times be accessible for emergency traffic.
         (2)   No open containers outside the enclosed area.
         (3)   Permit holder responsible for additional liability insurance.
Must have insurance rider.
         (4)   Permit holder responsible for appropriate signage for parking.
         (5)   Permit holder responsible for notifying and seeking agreement
from all neighboring businesses or residences.
         (6)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) unless accompanied by
their parent or legal guardian.
         (7)   Any drunk or disorderly conduct within the enclosed area may
result in termination of the supplemental license.
         e.   Application Of Other Provisions: Authority of law enforcement and
City officers: Law enforcement officers shall have full access to all areas
within the licensed premises. All regulations that are part of this chapter
shall apply in the same manner and degree as they apply to all other classes of
licenses described herein.
   C.   Additional Regulations Regarding Hours Of Operation:
      1.   Christmas Eve: Closing hours for all classes of licenses on
Christmas Eve shall be seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. with no time allowed for
persons to be present after that time for the purpose of cleaning the dramshop.
      2.   Thanksgiving Eve And New Year’s Eve: On Thanksgiving Eve and New
Year’s Eve all classes of licenses shall be granted one additional hour of
operating time. If your class of license dictates that you close at one thirty
o’clock (1:30) A.M. you will be allowed an additional hour and close at two
thirty o’clock (2:30) A.M. If your class of license dictates that you close at
three thirty o’clock (3:30) A.M. you will be allowed an additional hour and
close at four thirty o’clock (4:30) A.M.
      3.   Daylight Saving Time: In the fall, all holders of a Class B liquor
license shall adjust their clocks back at closing time and shall close at four
thirty o’clock (4:30) A.M. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 06-0911, 9-18-
2006; Ord. 08-0608, 6-2-2008; Ord. 09-0611, 6-1-2009; Ord. 10-1115, 11-15-2010;
Ord. 16-0417, 4-18-2016; Ord. 17-0215, 2-21-2017; Ord. 19-1108, 11-4-2019; Ord.
19-1210, 12-16-2019; Ord. 20-1111, 11-23-2020; Ord. 22-0908, 9-6-2022)
3-3-10: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees, as outlined in section
3-3-9 of this chapter, shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time application
is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General
Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the City
Council, by proper action. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Number Established: The City shall issue no more than a total of twenty
five (25) liquor licenses within the City in all of the license
classifications, as outlined in section
3-3-9 of this chapter. Any changes of license classifications shall require
approval of the City Council. Refer to section
3-3-13, "Nontransferability Of License", of this chapter. (Ord. 10-1115, 11-15-
2010; amd. Ord. 17-1018, 10-30-2017; Ord. 17-1104, 11-6-2017)
   B.   Annexed Lands: When any new lands are annexed to the City, and within
such lands there is the existence of a liquor license from the County, then
upon annexation to the City, the number of liquor licenses within the City
shall be increased, automatically granting licenses of the same classification
to the newly annexed property owners. The Mayor, as Liquor Commissioner, shall
be authorized to issue such liquor licenses. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd.
Ord. 19-1210, 12-16-2019)
3-3-12: LIST OF LICENSES:
The Mayor shall maintain a current list of all license holders and their
classifications. This list is available and shall be kept current. A copy shall
be provided to all Aldermen upon request. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent
or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not
longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-
2000)
3-3-14: LICENSE RENEWALS:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose, and, provided further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the Mayor from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction. Each licensee, thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration date of the liquor license, shall, in writing, file a
request for renewal on a form provided by the Liquor Commissioner. (Ord. 00-
0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-15: LOCATION AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within two hundred feet (200') of any church, school, hospital, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their spouses or children, or
any military or naval station, undertaking establishment or mortuary.
      2.   The two hundred foot (200') minimum requirement as set out in
subsection A1 of this section, shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
services, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurant food shops or other
places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried
on, if such businesses are at least one hundred feet (100') from any church,
school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their
spouses or children, or any military or naval station, undertaking
establishment or mortuary, except, if divided by a United States highway, then
the minimum distance allowed shall be fifty feet (50').
      3.   Distances shall be measured in a straight line from and to the
nearest points of the respective building and the liquor establishment.
   B.   Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under state and local laws.
   C.   View From Street: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant,
hotel or club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition, or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road,
or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by
him wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order
to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the Chief of Police will
determine compliance.
   D.   Premises With Access To Lodging: Except in the case of wineries that
have bed and breakfast facilities and hotels, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold
at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises
to any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purpose and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by
the public. (Ord. 13-1013, 10-21-2013; amd. Ord. 19-1210, 12-16-2019)
3-3-16: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or
for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease
to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-17: PURCHASE, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT AND/OR CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS
NOT OF AGE:
   A.   Purchase Or Acceptance Of Gift Of Liquor By Persons Not Of Age: Any
person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of age shall not purchase, accept a gift or have alcoholic liquor in
his possession.
   B.   Identification Cards:
      1.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale
or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
      2.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under twenty one (21) years of age is forbidden. Whoever
violates any provisions of this section shall be punished as provided in
subsection
3-3-22C of this chapter.
   C.   Religious Services And Adult Supervision In Home: The possession and
dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in the performance of
a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a minor under the
supervision and approval of the parents of such minor in the privacy of a home
is not prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-18: SALES TO, POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION BY CERTAIN PERSONS:
   A.   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee nor any officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall
give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be under
legal disability or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall give or deliver such alcoholic
liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Purchasing Or Attempting To
Purchase: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to, at any time, either directly or indirectly, purchase or attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquor or beverages.
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age: Any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years who, for the purpose of buying, accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor,
represents that he is twenty one (21) years of age or over shall be punished as
provided in subsection
3-3-22C of this chapter. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
   D.   Printed Card Placement: In every tavern or other place in the city
where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a
prominent place a printed card which shall be supplied by the city clerk and
which shall read substantially as follows:
      "WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE"
      You are subject to a fine up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
under the Ordinances of the City of East Dubuque if you purchase alcoholic
liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor if you are under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(Ord. 08-1007, 10-20-2008)
3-3-19: LOITERING:
   A.   Loitering By Persons Under Twenty One Years: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in, or stay on the
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold or served at any time. Any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years staying on any premises where alcoholic
beverages are sold or served shall be guilty of loitering and shall be punished
as provided in subsection
3-3-22C of this chapter.
   B.   Permitting Loitering By Persons Under Twenty One Years: It shall be
unlawful to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, male or
female, to loiter in any place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   C.   Evidence Of Loitering: Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years
charged with loitering on any premises where alcoholic beverages are sold or
served must be personally observed by the liquor control commissioner and/or
his designee before a citation of loitering can be issued by the East Dubuque
police department.
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Subsections A and B of this section do not apply to restaurants
serving alcoholic liquor from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve fifty nine
o'clock (12:59) P.M. or where a restaurant remains open for the purpose of
selling alcohol after the restaurant stops serving food for its guests between
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M., then any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall exit the premises one hour
after the restaurant stops serving food.
      2.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years may enter the
premises serving alcoholic liquor for a lawful purpose in connection with their
trade, occupation or profession but shall not loiter there beyond the time
reasonably required for the pursuit of their lawful trade, occupation or
profession.
      3.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years, male or female, may
enter the premises serving alcoholic liquor while accompanied by a parent,
legal guardian or spouse over the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 00-0515,
5-15-2000)
      4.   It shall be unlawful to permit any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years of age to be or remain in any licensed premises which derives
its principal business from the sale or service of other commodities than
alcoholic liquor unless said person is sitting or standing in a place
designated and used for the service of food and set off from the bar and other
areas of entertainment. (Ord. 08-1007, 10-20-2008)
3-3-20: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
   B.   Open Container:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any licensed premises
or to carry out from such premises onto any public way an open container of
alcoholic beverage.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry onto any public way any
open container of alcoholic beverage.
   C.   Failure To Pay Taxes, Or Fees; Required Returns:
      1.   No licensee shall wilfully fail or refuse to pay when due any taxes,
fees, assessments or penalties owed to the city, county and/or the state in
connection with the operation of any business conducted on the licensed
premises; nor shall the licensee fail or refuse to timely file any tax return
report or other document required in connection with such taxes, fees,
assessments and/or penalties.
      2.   Any licensee who is found, after a violation hearing, as set forth
is section
3-3-22 of this chapter, to have violated this subsection shall be fined and/or
assessed any other administrative penalties as set forth in section
3-3-22 of this chapter. In addition, the mayor may suspend such license until
the licensee has filed all such returns and paid all such amounts owed,
including interest, penalties and the fine imposed for this violation. (Ord.
00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd. Ord. 19-1210, 12-16-2019)
3-3-21: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor may revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any violation of
any provision of this chapter or for any violation of any state law pertaining
to the sale of alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000)
3-3-22: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Hearing: Upon the receipt of a violation of this chapter by
a liquor license holder, the mayor, acting as the liquor commissioner, may
schedule a meeting of the city council acting in its capacity as the East
Dubuque liquor commission to hear the evidence against and in defense of the
charge.
   B.   Administrative Penalties:
      1.   Mandatory Fines: Any person found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall receive a mandatory fine of three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for the first offense, seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for
the second offense, and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense
thereafter. If any person and/or establishment has not had a conviction for
three (3) years or more after the last conviction of a violation, then the fine
for the next conviction of a violation will start as if it were the first
offense and other offenses, thereafter, as outlined above.
      2.   Additional Administrative Penalties: In addition to the mandatory
fine imposed by this chapter, the liquor commissioner may impose any
combination of the following penalties:
         a.   Assess additional fines in multiples of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
         b.   Suspend the liquor license.
         c.   Terminate the liquor license.
   C.   Misdemeanor Offenses: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this chapter, shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. No
imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6)
months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to
be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may include a requirement
that the offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as,
but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways
or performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 00-0515, 5-15-2000; amd.
Ord. 19-1108, 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Coin Operated Amusement Devices
3-4-2: Carnivals, Circuses And Rodeos
3-4-1: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   Definition: "Coin operated amusement device" means any mechanical or
electronic amusement machine or device, the operation of which is governed or
controlled by the deposit of a coin or token, including, without being limited
thereto, any such coin controlled machine or device capable of producing or
reproducing any vocal or instrumental sounds.
   B.   License Required: No person shall keep, possess or maintain or permit
to be kept, possessed or maintained for gain or profit, any coin operated
amusement device without first having obtained a license as herein provided.
   C.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made to
the city clerk's office and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the premises wherein the coin operated amusement
device shall be operated;
      2.   Number and type of the coin operated amusement device to be
licensed;
      3.   Description of the coin operated amusement device and its serial
number, if any; and
      4.   A sworn statement that the licensee, its owners, partners or
officers have never been convicted of or pleaded no contest to a crime of moral
turpitude or have never been convicted of a felony or unsuccessfully defended a
criminal or civil proceeding charging fraud, misrepresentation or unscrupulous
business conduct. (Ord. 00-1125, 11-20-2000)
   D.   Term Of License; Fee: The license shall be for a period of one year
commencing January 1 and ending December 31. The fee for such annual license
shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each coin-operated device kept or
installed on the license premises and shall accompany the application. (Ord.
00-1125, 11-20-2000; amd. Ord. 07-0603, 6-4-2007)
   E.   Nontransferability Of License; Fee Not Refundable Nor Prorated: No
license issued under the provisions of this section shall be transferable,
refundable or prorated.
   F.   License To Be Posted: The license shall be posted permanently or
conspicuously at the location in the premises wherein the machine or device is
to be operated or maintained.
   G.   Denial Of License; Suspension; Revocation: Any license issued under
this section may be temporarily suspended or revoked, or an application for
issuance or renewal of a license required by this section may be refused by the
city council and/or the mayor, if it determines:
      1.   That the application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement; or
      2.   That the applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent
or misleading material statement, or has been convicted of or pleaded no
contest to a crime of moral turpitude or has been convicted of a felony or
unsuccessfully defended a criminal or civil proceeding charging fraud,
misrepresentation or unscrupulous business conduct; or
      3.   That the applicant or license holder has conducted any activities
directly related to the coin operated amusement device business in the city in
an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public; or
      4.   That the applicant or license holder has violated any of the
provisions of this section or of any other code, ordinance, statute,
resolution, rule or regulation of the city and/or the state.
   H.   Conditions Of Operation: The premises upon or within which any coin-
operated amusement device is licensed under this section shall be operated in
accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on the premises.
Any licensee or attendant who observes any gambling on the premises, or has
reasonable grounds to suspect that gambling is taking place, shall immediately
cause the removal from the premises of such persons as are involved in the
gambling activity.
      2.   Noise: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or attendant under this
section to permit any noise, either by mechanical or electronic means, or noise
on the part of the patrons, which shall cause a disturbance to the adjacent
and/or surrounding uses as would cause the normal use of such adjacent and/or
surrounding uses to be damaged or unreasonably disturbed.
      3.   Crowding: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that
the premises licensed pursuant to the terms of this section do not become
overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons
therein.
   I.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each and every offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate offense. (Ord. 00-1125, 11-20-2000; amd. Ord. 19-1107, 11-4-
2019)
3-4-2: CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES AND RODEOS:
   A.   License And Compliance Required: No person shall conduct or operate a
carnival, circus or rodeo in the City without first having obtained a license
as provided in this section. It shall be the duty of every person licensed
under this section to obey the provisions of this section and all other
ordinance provisions relating to carnivals, circuses and rodeos or the premises
occupied.
   B.   Application For License: Applications for such licenses shall be made
to the clerk and shall specify the place in or on which the carnival, circus or
rodeo is to be conducted.
   C.   License Fees: The fee for such license shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for the first three (3) days or less of operation. Any
operation beyond three (3) days shall be at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per day. No license shall be issued without the payment of this fee. (Ord., 3-
4-1968)
   D.   Nontransferability Of License; Fee Not Refundable Nor Prorated: No
license issued under the provisions of this section shall be transferable,
refundable or prorated. (Ord. 00-1125, 11-20-2000)
   E.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the chief of police and the fire
chief to see that inspections as provided by law shall be made of all carnival,
circus and rodeo performances and of the premises used.
   F.   Fraud: It shall be unlawful for any person to cheat, short change or
otherwise defraud any person attending or about to attend a carnival, circus or
rodeo performance within the city. (Ord., 3-4-1968)
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord., 3-4-1968; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GAMES OF CHANCE; RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Licensing Requirements And Restrictions
3-5-3: Permitted And Prohibited Licensees
3-5-4: Limitations On Raffles
3-5-5: Location Of Raffles
3-5-6: Raffles Manager, Bond
3-5-7: Records And Reports
3-5-8: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them:
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATION: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in the useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with a course of study presented in tax- supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to promote the welfare of its members and provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for the prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-for-
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2,
conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance.
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except, that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or are spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer public benefits. (Ord., 11-2-1981; amd. 2001 Code)
3-5-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
Licenses issued under this chapter are subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   License Required: No person shall conduct raffles or chances without
first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Contents Of License And Application:
      1.   The license and application for license must specify the area or
areas within the city in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time
period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of
determination of the winning chances and the location or locations at which
winning chances will be determined.
      2.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensing organization signed
by the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   C.   City Council Action: The city council shall act on a license
application within thirty (30) days of the date of that application.
   D.   Scope Of License:
      1.   A license issued under this chapter shall be only to conduct
"raffles" as defined in this chapter. Each license is valid for one raffle
only.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the
conducting or operation of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device
other than raffles as provided for herein. (Ord., 11-2-1981; amd. 2001 Code;
Ord. 25-0412, 4-7-2025)
3-5-3: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
   A.   Permitted Licensees: Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, or veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during that entire five (5) year
period a bona fide membership in carrying out their objectives.
   B.   Prohibited Licensees: The following are ineligible for any license
under this chapter:
      1.   A person who has been convicted of a felony.
      2.   A person who is or who has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2, or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or
in which such person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2, or
B3 of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or
not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2, or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in this chapter. (Ord., 11-2-1981)
3-5-4: LIMITATIONS ON RAFFLES:
   A.   Prizes, Merchandise And Samples: The city council hereby establishes
the following limitations in the conduct of operating the raffles licensed
under this chapter.
   B.   Conduct Of Raffles: The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following further restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must exclusively be devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter.
      4.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      5.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent
or guardian. (Ord., 11-2-1981; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 25-0412, 4-7-2025)
3-5-5: LOCATION OF RAFFLES:
The license issued under this chapter shall authorize the sale of raffle
chances only in those areas of the city which are within the borders of the
city. (Ord., 11-2-1981; amd. 2001 Code)
3-5-6: RAFFLES MANAGER, BOND:
All operation and conduct of the raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the organization. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond in a sum equal to the estimated gross revenue of the raffle in
favor of the organization, conditioned on his honesty and performance of his
duties. The bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
city clerk on behalf of the city council not less than thirty (30) days prior
to its cancellation. The city council may waive this bond requirement by
including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this chapter; provided, that a license containing such waiver provision shall
be granted only by a unanimous vote of the members of the licensed
organization. (Ord., 11-2-1981)
3-5-7: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Records Required:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
items or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same not-for-profit
organization pursuant to their license issued by the state department of
revenue, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of each of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   B.   Reports Required: Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall,
within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of each raffle, report to its
membership, and to the city council, by filing a written report with the city
clerk, its gross receipts, its expenses and net proceeds itemized as required
in this section.
   C.   Preservation Of Records: Records required by this section shall be
preserved for three (3) years, and organizations shall make available their
records relating to operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable
times and places. (Ord., 11-2-1981)
3-5-8: PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord., 11-2-1981; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
SECTION:
3-6-1: Adult Entertainment Cabarets; Definitions
3-6-2: Massage Parlors
3-6-1: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARETS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
    ADULT BOOKSTORE: A business or establishment having a significant inventory
or sales of books, magazines or films for sale or for viewing on premises which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities", or "specified
anatomical areas"; or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the
sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that holds itself out to
the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin operated booths,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
features exotic dancers, male or female impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit
fashion shows.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a significant inventory or
sales consisting of toys, devices, clothing "novelties", lotions and other
items distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on or use for "specified
sexual activities" or on "specified anatomical areas" or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, exclusion of minors from the
establishment's premises or any other factors showing the establishment's
primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT USE: Adult entertainment cabarets are the only allowable adult use
pursuant to this chapter.
   EMPLOYEE: Employees, independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: 1. Human genitals;
      2.   Pubic region;
      3.   Anus;
      4.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      5.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: 1. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
      2.   Acts of human masturbation;
      3.   Sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      4.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts.
   B.   Limitations On Adult Uses:
      1.   Restrictions: Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following
restrictions:
         a.   Location:
            (1)   An adult use shall only be located in a zoned business
district within the downtown business district where the front entrance is
located in front of Sinsinawa Avenue. Effective May 1, 2010, this subsection is
hereby repealed.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, an adult use shall only be allowed as
a special use and be located in a zoned industrial district.
         b.   Existing Adult Use: An adult use shall not be allowed within five
hundred feet (500') of another existing adult use.
         c.   Residential Districts:
            (1)   An adult use shall not be located within five hundred feet
(500') of any zoning district which is zoned for residential use. Effective May
1, 2010, this subsection B1c(1) is hereby repealed.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, an adult use shall not be located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any zoning district which is zoned for
residential use.
         d.   School Or Place Of Worship:
            (1)   An adult use shall not be located within five hundred feet
(500') of a preexisting school or place of worship. Effective May 1, 2010, this
subsection B1d(1) is hereby repealed.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, an adult use shall be prohibited
within a municipality within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property
boundaries of any school, daycare center, cemetery, public park, forest
preserve, public housing, and place of religious worship.
         e.   Other Businesses Serving Alcohol:
            (1)   Adult use shall not be located in a building or structure
which contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner
alcoholic beverages.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, no liquor license shall be issued and
no liquor shall be sold or consumed on the premises of any adult use and the
business cannot be located in a building or structure which contains another
business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic beverages.
         f.   Measurement Of Distances: For the purposes of this section,
measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the property line of the adult use to the nearest
property line of another adult use, school, place of worship or district zoned
for residential use.
         g.   Hours Of Operation:
            (1)   No adult use shall be open for business between three thirty
o'clock (3:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., seven (7) days per week.
Effective May 1, 2010, this subsection B1g(1) is repealed.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, no adult use shall be open prior to
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         h.   Limit On Adult Uses: There shall be no more than two (2) adult
use establishments located in the city of East Dubuque, Jo Daviess County,
Illinois.
         i.   Performance Restrictions:
            (1)   Performer And Patron Restrictions: All dancing and other
performances shall occur on a stage intended for that purpose which is separate
and apart from the general public and unobstructed from all horizontal views
within the building. No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than
one foot (1') to any patron. In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or
otherwise touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise
touch any performer. All performers shall keep specified anatomical areas
covered at all times (no nudity). No patron shall directly pay or give any
gratuity to any performer in any specified anatomical areas and no performer
shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be indirectly
given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage. Effective May 1,
2010, this subsection B1i(1) is repealed.
            (2)   Effective May 1, 2010, Performer And Patron Restrictions: All
dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for that purpose
which is separate and apart from the general public and unobstructed from all
horizontal views within the building. No dancing or other performances shall
occur closer than ten feet (10') to any patron. In addition, no performer shall
fondle, caress or otherwise touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress
or otherwise touch any performer. All performers shall keep specified
anatomical areas covered at all times (no nudity). No patron shall directly pay
or give any gratuity to any performer in any specified anatomical areas and no
performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be
indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage.
            (3)   Site Plan Review Required: The city council may place
conditions on the development and operation of the adult use related to site
plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting, parking and circulation
ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and signage in order to assure
that the design and operation of the adult use is in conformance with all city
ordinances and is compatible with surrounding areas.
      2.   Existing Adult Uses: The provisions stated in subsection B1 of this
section shall not apply to any adult use in existence at the time this section
takes effect, so long as the adult use establishment continues to conduct, as
an adult use, business at the same location it was doing business when this
section took effect; provided, that such adult use may expand its operation
into an adjoining structure which is not closer to a district zoned for
residential use or a preexisting school or place of worship and is operated as
an integral part of the original location. Effective May 1, 2010, this
subsection B2 is hereby repealed.
      3.   Prohibited Acts, Conditions For Licensing:
         a.   Exterior Display: No adult use shall be conducted in any manner
that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating
to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" by display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening from any public way or from any
property not licensed as an adult use.
         b.   Employment Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any adult use
licensee or his manager or employee to employ in any capacity within the adult
business any person who is not at least twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   Criminal Activities On Premises: No licensee or any officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall
engage in any activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any
activity or conduct in or about the licensed premises which is prohibited by
any ordinance of the city or law of the state or the United States.
   C.   Establishment License And Requirements:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in,
conduct or carry on, or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in
or upon any premises in the city, the operation of an adult use, without first
having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the city.
      2.   Application For License: Any person desiring a license to operate an
adult use establishment shall file a written application with the city clerk's
office on a form to be furnished by the city clerk's office. The applicant
shall accompany the application with a tender of the correct license fee, as
provided in subsection F of this section and shall, in addition, furnish the
following personal information concerning the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, and attach a copy of
their driver's license:
         a.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone number,
including area code.
         b.   Written proof of age consisting of, but not limited to, a birth
certificate.
         c.   Height, weight and color of hair and eyes.
         d.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application regarding the applicant's request for a license.
         e.   The applicant shall keep and maintain liability insurance in an
amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and shall provide
evidence of such insurance upon application for or renewal of each license.
         f.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the information contained in the application is true and correct, with
such declaration being duly dated and signed at the city clerk's office.
      3.   Approval Of Application:
         a.   Upon receiving the application for adult use establishment
license, the mayor and/or designated agent shall preliminarily review the
application and shall within five (5) days refer the copies of such application
to the city manager, the police department, fire department, zoning department
or any other designated agents.
         b.   These officials and/or designated agents shall within thirty (30)
days inspect the premises proposed to be operated as an adult use establishment
or, in case of the police department, conduct a background investigation of the
applicant and manager(s) and all such officials shall make recommendations to
the mayor and/or designated agent concerning the premises and the applicant's
compliance with the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the aforesaid
officials and/or designated agents.
         c.   Within ten (10) days of receiving the recommendation of the
aforesaid officials and/or designated agents, the mayor and/or designated agent
will render his/her approval or denial of the application to the city council.
The city council must give final approval prior to any issuance of a license.
      4.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: Upon approval of the city council,
the mayor and/or designated agent shall issue an adult use establishment
license within ninety (90) days of receipt of the application, unless he/she
find the following:
         a.   The correct license fee has not been tendered to the city and in
the case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation.
         b.   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted would
not comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city's
zoning, building and health regulations.
         c.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of fact in the application for the permit or in any
document required by the city in connection therewith.
         d.   The applicant has operated an adult use establishment in East
Dubuque or elsewhere and has had that license denied, revoked or suspended by
the city or any other state or local agency within three (3) years prior to the
date of the application.
         e.   The applicant principally in charge of the operation of the
business is under twenty one (21) years of age.
         f.   The applicant is a person who is not of good moral character and
reputation in the community in which he/she resides.
         g.   The applicant has been convicted of any the following offenses,
unless upon investigation the mayor and/or designated agent finds that such
convictions occurred at least five (5) years prior to the date of the
application, that the applicant has had no subsequent convictions and has shown
evidence of rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public trust:
            (1)   A felony under federal laws or the laws of this or any other
state.
            (2)   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping
a place of prostitution, patronizing a prostitute, pimping, obscenity, selling
harmful material or having a tie in the sale of obscene publications to
distributors, under the laws of this state or equivalent laws or codes of the
United States or any other state or city, or any other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
      5.   Term Of License:
         a.   Each license, except for a temporary establishment license, shall
be issued for one year beginning January 1 and said license will expire on
December 31 after it was issued and may be renewed only by making application
as provided in subsections C2 and C3 of this section. Application for renewal
shall be made to the city clerk at least thirty (30) days before the expiration
date and when made less than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
         b.   Each temporary establishment license shall be issued for a period
of days as fixed by the city council and said license will expire on the last
date of issuance at a period of time the business closes its daily operations.
         c.   If the mayor and/or designated agent deny renewal of a license,
the applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to denial, the mayor and/or designated agent find that
the basis for denial of the license has been corrected or abated, the applicant
may be granted a license.
      6.   Nontransferability Of License: A licensee shall not transfer his/her
license to another nor shall a licensee operate an adult use business under the
authority of a license at any place other than the address on the license.
      7.   Business Records: The mayor and/or designated agent may direct an
adult use establishment to file a verified report with the city showing the
licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees and/or performers
during the preceding calendar year. In addition, all adult use establishments
shall maintain and retain for a period of two (2) years the names, addresses
and ages of all persons employed, including independent contractors, by the
licensee.
   D.   Hearings, Suspension And Revocations:
      1.   Summary Suspension; Hearing: Upon an allegation that a licensee has
violated any provision of this chapter, the city may take administrative action
against the licensee via the following procedure:
         a.   The city shall provide at least seven (7) days' notice to
licensee of the allegation(s) and the time and place of a hearing to be
conducted by the mayor and/or designated agent regarding the allegation; notice
shall be provided by either personal service by the chief of police to licensee
at any time or place or to any management individual present at the business
premises during hours the premises is open to the public, or posting the notice
on the entry of the business premises;
         b.   The city may demand on the notice that the licensed premises
shall suspend all business pending the hearing pursuant to specific terms
contained in the notice; however, should such a demand be made the hearing
shall occur no later than fifteen (15) days from the date of the suspension of
business operation.
      2.   Suspension: The mayor and/or designated agent shall impose a fine
pursuant to subsection D4a of this section and may suspend a license for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days if, after a hearing pursuant to
subsection D1 of this section, it is determined that a licensee or an employee
of a licensee violated or is not in compliance with any subsection of this
chapter.
      3.   Revocation Of License:
         a.   The mayor and/or designated agent may revoke a license if it is
determined that a licensee or an employee of licensee violated or is not in
compliance with any subsection of this chapter if the license has been
suspended within the preceding twelve (12) months.
         b.   The mayor and/or designated agent may revoke a license if the
licensee is convicted of any felony of any state subsequent to the issuance of
the license. A certified copy of the conviction is prima facie proof the
conviction happened.
         c.   The mayor and/or designated agent may revoke a license if it
determines, after a hearing pursuant to subsection D1 of this section, that a
licensee or an employee of a licensee:
            (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process.
            (2)   Has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of a controlled
substance on the premises.
            (3)   Has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
            (4)   Knowingly operated the adult use during a period of time when
the licensee's license was suspended.
            (5)   Has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy,
oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the licensee
premises.
            (6)   Is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state for any
taxes or fees past due.
            (7)   Has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another in the
commission of the offense of public indecency.
         d.   A revocation serves the purpose of making a license available
pursuant to subsection B of this section.
         e.   The mayor and/or designated agent reserve the authority to modify
or vacate any fine, suspension, or revocation upon good cause shown.
      4.   Administrative Penalties:
         a.   Mandatory Fines: Any licensee found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter pursuant to a hearing via subsection D1 of this
section shall receive a minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
the first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense, and
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense thereafter. If a
licensee has not been found in violation for three (3) years or more after the
last violation, then the fine for the next violation will start as if it were
the first offense and other offenses, thereafter, as outlined above.
         b.   Additional Administrative Penalties: In addition to the minimum
fine imposed by this chapter, the mayor may impose any combination of the
following penalties: Assess additional fines in multiples of five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
         c.   Pleas: The mayor may reach an agreement with anyone alleged to
have committed any violation of this chapter without holding a hearing pursuant
to subsection D1 of this section.
   E.   Performer Permits And Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required; Application:
         a.   Any person who actually engages the performance of adult use
services to the public in connection with an adult use establishment shall file
an application for an adult use performer permit with the police department
upon a form provided by the police department and shall tender the correct
permit fee, as provided in subsection F of this section to the city clerk and/
or designated agents who shall issue a receipt which shall be attached to the
application filed with the police department.
         b.   The application for an adult use performer permit shall contain
substantially the same information as the application for an adult use
establishment license under subsection C of this section, except for personal
information concerning the manager or other person principally in charge of the
operation of the business and the keeping and maintenance of liability
insurance under this section.
      2.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Term:
         a.   Adult Use Performer Permit: The mayor, city manager, police
chief, and/or designated agents may issue an annual adult use performer permit
within fourteen (14) days following the application, unless he/she finds that
the applicant would not have been eligible for an adult use permit under the
terms of subsection C4 of this section.
The annual adult use performer permit issued pursuant to this subsection will
terminate at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless
the permit has been revoked under subsection E6 of this section.
         b.   Temporary Adult Use Performer Permit:
            (1)   The mayor, city manager, police chief, and/or designated
agents may issue a temporary adult use performer permit with four (4) hours
following the application, unless he/she finds that the applicant would not
have been eligible for an adult use permit under the terms of subsection C4 of
this section, and the permit shall not exceed longer than four (4) days from
the issuance date.
            (2)   The temporary adult use performer permit will terminate at
the expiration date as set forth by the mayor, city manager, police chief, and/
or designated agents, unless the permit has been revoked under subsection E6 of
this section.
            (3)   The mayor, city manager, city clerk, and/or designated agents
may transfer the costs of the temporary adult use performer permit fee to the
adult use performer permit fee.
      3.   Licensee's Duty To Ensure Performers Have Permits: It shall be the
responsibility of the licensee for the adult use or the employer of any persons
purporting to engage in the performance of adult use services to the public in
connection with an adult use establishment to ensure that each such person
shall first have obtained a valid adult use performer permit pursuant to this
section.
      4.   Nontransferability Of Permit: A permittee shall not transfer his/her
permit to another person.
      5.   Performer Restrictions:
         a.   All adult use permittees must be fully clothed so as to cover
specified anatomical areas while off the stage and while amongst the patrons.
         b.   All adult use permittees must wear no less than G-strings while
on the stage.
      6.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit:
         a.   Any adult use performer permit may be revoked or suspended by the
mayor, city manager, police chief and/or designated agent if the mayor, city
manager, police chief and/or designated agent shall find the following:
            (1)   That the permittee has violated any of the provisions of this
section regulating adult uses.
            (2)   The permittee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this subsection or knowingly caused or suffered another
to furnish or withhold such information on his/her behalf.
         b.   The mayor, city manager, police chief and/or designated agent
shall revoke any adult use performer permit if the mayor, city manager, police
chief and/or designated agent shall find that the permittee has committed any
of the offenses listed in subsection C4g of this section.
         c.   The mayor, city manager, police chief and/or designated agent in
revoking or suspending an adult use performer permit shall give the permit
holder written notice specifying the grounds therefor. Such person may, within
ten (10) days of such revocation or suspension, file a written request with the
mayor and/or designated agent for a public hearing before the mayor and/or
designated agent at which time the permittee may present evidence bearing upon
the question.
         d.   The mayor and/or designated agent may, in his/her discretion,
conduct such hearing concurrently with a hearing pursuant to subsection D of
this section, unless it shall appear that such a joint hearing would prejudice
the rights of the licensee or the permittee involved.
   F.   License And Permit Fees:
      1.   Establishment Licensees:
         a.   Annual License: The license fee for an adult use establishment is
set as follows:
            (1)   Effective January 1, 2007, two hundred dollars ($200.00)
annual fee or any part thereof.
            (2)   Effective January 1, 2008, four hundred dollars ($400.00)
annual fee or any part thereof.
            (3)   Effective January 1, 2009, six hundred dollars ($600.00)
annual fee or any part thereof.
            (4)   Effective January 1, 2010, six hundred dollars ($600.00)
annual fee to be prorated through April 30, 2010.
            (5)   Effective May 1, 2010, eight hundred dollars ($800.00) annual
fee or any part thereof.
            (6)   Effective, January 1, 2011, and each subsequent year
following, the fee will increase one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
         b.   Temporary License: The license fee for a temporary adult use
establishment shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, or any part
thereof.
      2.   Performer Permits:
         a.   Annual Performer Permits: The permit fee for any persons
purporting to engage in the performance of adult use services to the public in
connection with an adult use establishment shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per
year, or any part thereof.
         b.   Temporary/Per Day: The permit fee for any persons purporting to
engage in the performance of adult use services to the public in connection
with an adult use establishment shall be five dollars ($5.00) per day, or any
part thereof.
      3.   Payment Of Fees; Refunds: All fees are payable to the city clerk's
office upon application and are nonrefundable.
      4.   Display Of License And Permit:
         a.   Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous
place within the adult use business so that the same may be readily seen by
persons entering the premises.
         b.   All persons required under this section to obtain an adult use
performer permit pursuant to this section must display on request during the
hours of operation of such business an identification card provided by the city
police department containing the legal name and date of birth of the performer.
      5.   Inspections:
         a.   An applicant or licensee shall permit the mayor, the city
manager, the police department, fire department or any other designated agent
to inspect the premises of the adult use for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the law at any time it is occupied or open for business.
         b.   A person who operates an adult use, or his agent or employee,
violates this section if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the
premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
      6.   Business Records:
         a.   All adult use shall file a verified report with the city showing
the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the
preceding year. In addition, all adult use shall maintain and retain for a
period of two (2) years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed,
including independent contractors, by the licensee.
   G.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Generally: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted in a
court of law shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second
offense and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense thereafter.
      2.   Adult Use Establishment: Any adult use establishment convicted in a
court of law of a violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first
offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense and seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense thereafter. If any adult use
establishment has not had a conviction for three (3) years or more after the
last conviction of a violation, then the fine for the next conviction of a
violation will start as if it were the first offense and other offense,
thereafter, as outlined above. (Ord. 09-1103, 11-16-2009)
3-6-2: MASSAGE PARLORS:
   A.   Massage Parlors Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person or
corporation, regardless of whether it is a public or private facility, to
operate as a massage parlor, bath parlor, or any similar type business, where
any physical contact with the recipient of massage services is provided by a
person.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to a physician, surgeon, chiropractor,
osteopath or physical therapist duly licensed by the state, or to a licensed
nurse acting under the direct prescription and direction of any such physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath.
      2.   This section shall not apply to barbershops or beauty parlors in
which massage is given to the scalp, the face, the neck or the shoulders.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section, or any part hereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's operation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord., 3-6-1989; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: Application For License
3-7-4: Term Of License; Fee
3-7-5: Nontransferability Of License; Fee Not Refundable Nor Prorated
3-7-6: License To Be Posted
3-7-7: Denial Of License; Suspension Or Revocation
3-7-8: Conditions Of Operation
3-7-9: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
BILLIARD TABLE: Any table upon which the games of bagatelle, bumper pool,
billiards, pocket billiards, pigeonhole or pool are played, commencement of
which play is not prompted by the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc
or key or by the payment of any other consideration.
POOL TABLE: Any table upon which the games billiards or pool are played,
commencement of which play is prompted by the insertion of a coin, slug, token,
plate, disc or key or by the payment of any other consideration. (Ord. 00-1126,
11-20-2000)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep, possess or maintain or permit to be kept, possessed or
maintained for gain or profit, any pool table, billiard table or similar gaming
table without first having obtained a license as herein provided. (Ord. 00-
1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the city clerk's office and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the premises wherein the pool table, billiard table
or similar gaming table shall be operated;
   B.   Number and type of the pool table, billiard table or similar gaming
table to be licensed;
   C.   Description of the pool table, billiard table or similar gaming table
and its serial number, if any; and
   D.   A sworn statement that the licensee, its owners, partners or officers
have:
      1.   Never been convicted of or pleaded no contest to a crime of moral
turpitude; or
      2.   Have never been convicted of a felony; or
      3.   Unsuccessfully defended a criminal or civil proceeding charging
fraud, misrepresentation or unscrupulous business conduct. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-
20-2000)
3-7-4: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE:
The license shall be for a period of one year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31. The fee for such annual license shall be forty dollars ($40.00)
for each pool table, billiard table or similar gaming table kept or installed
on the licensed premises, which shall be payable to the city clerk's office.
(Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-5: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; FEE NOT REFUNDABLE NOR PRORATED:
No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable,
refundable or prorated. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-6: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
The license shall be posted permanently or conspicuously at the location in the
premises wherein the pool table, billiard table or similar gaming table is to
be operated or maintained. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-7: DENIAL OF LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Any license issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended or revoked,
or an application for issuance or renewal of a license required by this chapter
may be refused by the city council and/or the mayor, if it determines:
   A.   That the application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement; or
   B.   That the applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent or
misleading material statement, or has been convicted of or pleaded no contest
to a crime of moral turpitude or has been convicted of a felony or
unsuccessfully defended a criminal or civil proceeding charging fraud,
misrepresentation or unscrupulous business conduct; or
   C.   That the applicant or license holder has conducted any activities
directly related to the pool table, billiard table or similar gaming table
business in the city in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public; or
   D.   That the applicant or license holder has violated any of the provisions
of this chapter or of any other code, ordinance, statute, resolution, rule or
regulation of the city and/or the state. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-8: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
The premises upon or within which any pool table, billiard table or similar
gaming table is licensed under this chapter shall be operated in accordance
with the following regulations:
   A.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on the premises. Any
licensee or attendant who observes any gambling on the premises, or has
reasonable grounds to suspect that gambling is taking place, shall immediately
cause the removal from the premises of such persons as are involved in the
gambling activity.
   B.   Noise: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or attendant under this
chapter to permit any noise, either by mechanical or electronic means, or noise
on the part of the patrons, which shall cause a disturbance to the adjacent
and/or surrounding uses as would cause the normal use of such adjacent and/or
surrounding uses to be damaged or unreasonably disturbed.
   C.   Overcrowding: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see
that the premises licensed pursuant to the terms of this chapter do not become
overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons
therein. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000)
3-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and
every offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a
separate offense. (Ord. 00-1126, 11-20-2000; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TOBACCO SALES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Tobacco Sales From Vending Machines
3-8-2: Tobacco Dealers
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Minors
3-8-5: Smoking In Public Buildings Prohibited
3-8-6: Violation; Penalty
3-8-1: TOBACCO SALES FROM VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   Sales From Vending Machines: All tobacco product machines shall be
illegal unless a license is obtained for said machines from the city. The
license shall be for a period of one year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31, and the annual fee for such license shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00) payable in advance of the licensed year. (Ord., 2-3-1992; amd. 2001
Code; Ord. 07-0605, 6-4-2007)
   B.   Nontransferability Of License; Fee Not Refundable Nor Prorated: No
license issued under the provisions of this section shall be transferable,
refundable or prorated. (Ord., 9-2-1997)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord., 2-3-
1992; amd. 2001 Code)
3-8-2: TOBACCO DEALERS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any
tobacco or tobacco products of any kind or nature whatsoever, unless a license
is first secured and the provisions of this section are fully complied with.
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made to
the city clerk and shall recite the name and address of the tobacco dealer.
(Ord., 1-2-1952; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   License Fee And Term: The annual fee for such license, which shall
accompany the application, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
tobacco dealer. Each license shall be issued for one year beginning January 1
of each year and will expire on December 31 of the same year. (Ord., 1-2-1952;
amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 07-0605, 6-4-2007)
   D.   Health And Safety Requirements:
      1.   All tobacco shall be kept in clean and sanitary cases and/or
containers.
      2.   If matches are sold or given away in connection with the sale of
tobacco, such matches shall be kept in a safe place away from heat, friction,
or any other force or substance which would create a fire hazard.
   E.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the city manager to make or cause
to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   F.   Revocation Of License: Any license issued under the provisions of this
section may be revoked by the mayor for any violation of any regulation hereof,
and such revocation shall be in addition to any fine imposed by this section.
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord., 1-2-1952; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 19-1106, 11-4-2019)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
CITY HALL: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind and which is permanently
affixed to the ground and which is owned or maintained by the city.
POSSESSION: To have upon one's person or to have in close physical proximity.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigars, any smokeless tobacco for dipping or
chewing, or tobacco in any form. (Ord. 04-0917, 9-20-2004)
3-8-4: MINORS:
   A.   Sales To: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether selling
individually or as an owner, officer, employee or agent of or on behalf of any
person, firm or corporation to sell, buy for, distribute samples, or furnish,
exchange or give away any tobacco product in any form to any individual under
the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Possession By: No individual under eighteen (18) years of age shall
have in his or her possession any tobacco product in any of its forms. It shall
not be a violation of this section for any such person to have in his or her
possession any tobacco products while in the presence of his or her parents or
legal guardian or in the performance of a religious ceremony, or while
participating in any theatrical performance where possession of a tobacco
product is necessary.
   C.   Use And Possession On Public Property:
      1.   The use or consumption of tobacco products by minors upon any public
sidewalks, public thoroughfares, public streets, public highways, public parks,
or any property of a public school or any other public areas within the city
limits is hereby prohibited.
      2.   The possession of any tobacco products by minors while upon any
public sidewalks, public thoroughfares, public streets, and public highways,
public parks, or any property of a public school or any other public areas
within the city is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 04-0917, 9-20-2004)
3-8-5: SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for anyone to smoke in buildings that are owned by the city.
(Ord. 04-0917, 9-20-2004)
3-8-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter is a petty offense and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 04-0917, 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 9
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-9-1: State Regulations Applicable
3-9-2: Administration Of Provisions
3-9-3: Definitions
3-9-4: License Required; Term And Fee
3-9-5: Application For License
3-9-6: Insurance Required
3-9-7: Inspections; Issuance Of License; Nontransferability
3-9-8: Fire Prevention Requirements
3-9-9: Violation; Penalty
3-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Applicability Of State Regulations: This chapter shall be interpreted
and enforced in accordance with the provisions set forth in the public act no.
85-0399 known as the "bed and breakfast act 1 ", hereafter referred to as the
"act", as amended. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
   B.   Copy Of State Regulations To Licensees: Copies of said or amended act,
along with any amendments or revisions thereto, shall be provided to all
persons in the city operating or applying for licenses to operate "bed and
breakfast establishments", as defined in this chapter. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-
4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.
3-9-2: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The city manager and/or the county health department shall administer this
chapter. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
3-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
Any terms set forth in this chapter shall have the same meanings as set forth
in the act. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
3-9-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM AND FEE:
Only those people who comply with the requirements of this chapter may operate
a bed and breakfast establishment in the city. The licensing fee for the
initial year of operation shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) for
establishments with one or two (2) guest rooms, and twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each additional guest room. The licensing period shall be May 1
through April 30. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
3-9-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Persons desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment shall make
written application for a license on forms provided by the licensing agency.
Such application shall include information pertaining to the requirements
specified in the act. In addition, when the establishment is not serviced by a
public sewer and/or water facility, the applicant shall submit documentation
that:
   A.   Water Supply: The water supply is from a source constructed and
operated according to law; and
   B.   Sewage System: The sewage disposal system is constructed and operating
in conformance with the applicable state and local ordinances and regulations,
and is of sufficient size to adequately treat the sewage produced. (Ord., 9-4-
1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
3-9-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Each licensee shall maintain minimum liability insurance of one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) for any individual and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for any occurrence. A certificate of insurance shall be
tendered by license applicants at the time of application. (Ord., 9-4-1990,
eff. 9-4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
3-9-7: INSPECTIONS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Inspections Prior To Issuance Of License: Upon receipt of the completed
application and appropriate fee, the administrating authority shall make an
inspection of the bed and breakfast establishment to determine compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and compliance with the Illinois state bed and
breakfast act.
   B.   Issuance Of License; Nontransferability: When the inspections reveal
that the applicable requirements have been met, a license shall be issued, and
licenses shall not be assignable or transferable.
   C.   Annual And Periodic Inspections: Inspection shall be made annually for
license renewal and as often as necessary during the period of operation to
assure that compliance with this chapter is being maintained.
   D.   Entry Powers: The administrating authority shall be permitted to enter
any bed and breakfast establishment within the city for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-
4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
3-9-8: FIRE PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS:
The licensee/applicant shall permit the local fire department to inspect the
premises of the proposed bed and breakfast facility for conformance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings set out in chapter 22 of the
NFPA 101 life and safety code, and the additional requirements set forth in
this section. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
   B.   Smoke Detectors:
      1.   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the bed and
breakfast structure's AC power line, with battery backup or be otherwise
interrelated so as to comprise a system that is, in the judgment of the local
fire chief of equal to or greater protection value. (Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-
1990; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Multi-station units shall be interconnected so that the activation
of one detector will activate all of the detectors in the bed and breakfast or
will activate other centrally located warning devices.
      3.   Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows: one in each guest
room used for sleeping purposes; one in each main hallway or corridor on each
floor; one in each living room or lounge area; one in each dining room; one in
each basement and in each workshop area. There shall be at least one smoke
detector on each floor of the bed and breakfast, excluding unoccupied attics.
      4.   The bed and breakfast owner shall provide such periodic written
reports relating to smoke detector testing and maintenance as may be required
by the fire prevention bureau.
   C.   Guest Rooms Located Above The Second Floor Or In The Basement:
      1.   All guest rooms located above the second floor or in the basement
must have two (2) exits approved by the local fire department. All vertical
openings to any such floor or basement in which a guest room is located shall
be enclosed with enclosures continuous from floor to ceiling, which enclosures
shall be by fire barriers such as walls or partition assemblies. Fire barriers
shall have a minimum of one-hour fire resistance rating.
      2.   Passageways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement and
stairways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement shall be
enclosed by materials that have a minimum of one-hour fire resistance rating.
      3.   Self-closing doors approved by the fire department shall be used in
any stairway used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement.
   D.   Work Areas: Any workshop or other area determined by the local fire
department to contain equipment or materials constituting a potential fire
hazard shall be enclosed with fire resistant materials.
   E.   Interior Finishes: All interior finishes and floor coverings in the bed
and breakfast shall meet life safety code regulations so as to restrict the
spread of fire. Cellulose, foam, plastic and other similar material shall not
be used for interior finishes.
   F.   Exit Regulations And Floor Plan:
      1.   All hallways, corridors and stairways used as exits shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Emergency lighting shall meet section 5-9 of
the NFPA 101 life safety code.
      2.   A kitchen exit shall not be considered as an approved fire exit on a
bed and breakfast where breakfast is served.
      3.   All interior and exterior exits shall open from the inside without
the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits shall be the width of
thirty inches (30") and shall not be blocked or obstructed at any time.
      4.   A floor plan of the bed and breakfast shall be maintained in each
guest room, which plan shall show the location of each such guest room and the
exit locations to be used for such guest room in the event of fire.
   G.   Access Roads: All access roads serving bed and breakfast establishments
shall be sufficient width and construction to accommodate emergency vehicles.
Local fire departments may designate the minimum acceptable width required for
access roads, but in no case shall the width be less than ten feet (10').
(Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
3-9-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined from
continuing such violation. Each day's violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord., 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 10
RESTAURANTS
(Rep. by Ord. 19-2018, 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 11
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: License Required
3-11-3: Exemptions
3-11-4: Religious And Charitable Organizations Exempt
3-11-5: Application For License
3-11-6: Issuance Of License
3-11-7: Fees
3-11-8: Bond Required
3-11-9: Display Of License
3-11-10: License Not Transferable
3-11-11: Revocation Of License
3-11-12: Expiration Of License
3-11-13: Streets Closed To Solicitation
3-11-14: City Parks Solicitation
3-11-15: Solicitation Times
3-11-16: Fee Not Refundable Nor Prorated
3-11-17: Penalty
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For use in this Chapter, the following terms are defined:
   A.   Itinerant Merchant: Any person, firm, or corporation who engages in a
temporary or transient merchandising business and during such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever. Temporary association
with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of such
itinerant business in connection with, as part of, or in the name of any local
merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, shall not exempt any person, firm, or
corporation from being considered an itinerant merchant. The term "itinerant
merchant" does not include mobile food trucks.
   B.   Peddler: Any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or offers
for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house-to-house
or upon the public street.
   C.   Solicitor: Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from house-
to-house or upon public street an order for goods, subscriptions, or
merchandise to be delivered at a future date.
   D.   Mobile Food Unit: Any type of daily licensed food establishment that is
a readily movable vehicle (on wheels), that is self-propelled (driven), or can
be pulled or pushed to a location and used for the vending of food or beverage
items to the public.
   E.   Mobile Food Vendor: A person engaged in the business of selling food or
beverages from a mobile food unit.
   F.   Person: Natural persons, corporations, firms, and organizations of any
description, whether acting in person or through agents, employees, or other
persons.
   G.   Pushcart: A non-self-propelled mobile food unit that is pushed or
pulled by the mobile food vendor to a location and serves a limited offering of
food or beverage items. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, in the business of an itinerant
merchant, or doing business in a mobile food unit in this City without first
obtaining a license as herein provided shall be in violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Newspaper delivery individuals, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, students at the East
Dubuque Community School District conducting projects sponsored by the school
district, persons customarily calling on businesses or institutions for the
purpose of selling products for resale or institutional use and local farmers
selling fruits and vegetables which they have produced, are exempt from the
regulations of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-4: RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS EXEMPT:
Authorized representatives of religious organizations, charitable
organizations, and non-profit corporations desiring to solicit money or to
distribute literature are exempt from the regulations of this chapter. (Ord.
22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application in writing shall be filed with the City for a license under this
Chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant's name, permanent and
local address, business address, if any. The application also shall set forth
the applicant's employer, if any, and the employer's address, the nature of the
applicant's business, and the length of time sought to be covered by the
license. The applicant shall submit a copy of his or her state issued photo ID
or photo driver's license. Receiving approval of a mobile food unit license
from the City shall not preclude, supersede, circumvent, or waive the
applicant's responsibility to obtain any additional permits, licenses, and
approvals for other applicable local, state, and federal regulations. (Ord. 22-
1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
If the City finds the application is made out in conformance with Section
3-11-5 of this Chapter and the facts stated therein are correct, the City shall
issue, upon posting of bond as required by Section
3-11-8 of this Chapter a license and charge a fee therefore as determined by
Section
3-11-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-7: FEES:
Every licensee shall pay the following fee before a license shall be issued.
   A.   Peddler/Solicitor: One hundred dollars ($100.00) daily.
   B.   Itinerant Merchant: One hundred dollars ($100.00) daily.
   C.   Mobile Food Unit: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) annually.
Such fee is subject to being waived if the mobile food unit is part of a
special public event or in connection with a business event. Waiving of such
fee must be approved by the City. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022; amd. Ord. 25-0621,
6-16-2025)
3-11-8: BOND AND PROOF OF INSURANCE:
Proof of insurance is required. A bond may be required. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-
2022; amd. Ord. 25-0621, 6-16-2025)
3-11-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each solicitor or peddler shall at all times while doing business in this City
keep in his or her possession the license provided for in Section
3-11-6 of this Chapter, and shall, upon the request of prospective customers,
exhibit the license as evidence that he or she has complied with all
requirements of this Chapter. Each itinerant merchant shall display publicly
his or her license in their place of business. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-10: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city, after notice and hearing, may revoke any license issued under this
Chapter where the licensee in the application for the license or in the course
of conducting his or her business has made fraudulent or incorrect statements
or has violated this Chapter or has otherwise conducted his or her business in
an unlawful manner. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-12: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses expire at the time indicated on the license application. (Ord. 22-
1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-13: STREETS CLOSED TO SOLICITATION:
No mobile food units shall be left unattended or stored on any public street
overnight. Peddlers' mobile food units shall not sell their goods or wares on
the following streets:
   A.   Sinsinawa.
   B.   Montgomery.
   C.   Wisconsin.
   D.   Wall.
   E.   First and Second between railroad tracks and Sinsinawa Ave. (Ord. 22-
1105, 11-21-2022; amd. Ord. 25-0621, 6-16-2025)
3-11-14: CITY PARKS SOLICITATION:
Peddlers, mobile food units, or itinerant merchants shall only sell their goods
and wares within city parks if permission is granted from the City. No mobile
food unit shall be left unattended or stored in any public park overnight.
(Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-15: SOLICITATION TIMES:
No peddlers or solicitors shall be allowed to peddle door to door after 8:00
p.m. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-16: FEE NOT REFUNDABLE NOR PRORATED:
No license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be refundable or
prorated. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
3-11-17: PENALTY:
Any persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; each day during which any such person is
engaged in a business in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed and constituted a separate offense. (Ord. 22-1105, 11-21-2022)
CHAPTER 12
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definition
3-12-2: Supervision
3-12-3: Application For Permit
3-12-4: Number Of Days For Solicitations
3-12-5: Conduct Of Solicitations
3-12-6: Uniform; Identification Requirements
3-12-7: Interfering With Public Prohibited
3-12-1: DEFINITION:
The term "tag days" is hereby defined to mean those days on which it shall be
lawful for charitable organizations to solicit funds for charitable purposes
upon the public ways of the city through means of distributing emblems or
selling flowers or other merchandise, the possession of such emblem, flower, or
merchandise indicating those who have contributed to such fund or funds. (Ord.,
no date)
3-12-2: SUPERVISION:
Supervision and control over all tag days shall be vested the city council. The
city council may formulate reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter and
properly controlling the conduct of any such tag day. (Ord., no date; amd. 2001
Code)
3-12-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Before engaging in or conducting any tag day, each organization shall make
application for permission therefor to the city council in such form as it may
designate on or before the thirty first day preceding the proposed date of the
tag day applied for occurs. (Ord., no date; amd. 2001 Code)
3-12-4: NUMBER OF DAYS FOR SOLICITATIONS:
Tag days shall be limited in the following regard:
   A.   There shall only be one organization soliciting for charitable purposes
on any given day.
   B.   Only one tag day may normally be conducted in the city by any
organization within a calendar year. (Ord., no date; amd. 2001 Code)
3-12-5: CONDUCT OF SOLICITATIONS:
No charitable organization shall conduct or share in the proceeds of any such
tag day unless it conforms to the following requirements:
   A.   It shall have a responsible administrative body and shall be performing
a charitable function or be engaged in charitable work which, in the opinion of
the city council, shall be commensurate with the funds received and distributed
by it.
   B.   It shall agree to cooperate and shall cooperate with all other
charitable organizations in promoting efficiency of administration in
charitable work, with a view to preventing duplication of effort and waste of
funds collected.
   C.   It shall not, in connection with said tag day, employ paid solicitors.
   D.   It shall present, in connection with its application, evidence that it
has obtained insurance providing coverage for bodily injury liability in the
amount of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) for any individual
and three hundred thousand dollars ($300.000.00) for any occurrence. Said
policy shall name the city as an additional insured. (Ord., no date; amd. 2001
Code)
3-12-6: UNIFORM; IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Every person who solicits funds on behalf of an organization on a tag day shall
wear a uniform or article of clothing which, by its nature or design, informs
the general public of the identity of the organization soliciting the funds or
shall wear or carry such other emblem, button, sign or insignia that fully and
clearly informs the public of the identity of the organization. In addition,
each solicitor shall have a container on which is provided or affixed the name
of the organization, and such container shall be completely sealed except for a
slot for deposit of currency or coins. (Ord., no date)
3-12-7: INTERFERING WITH PUBLIC PROHIBITED:
Any person soliciting funds on behalf of an organization who shall wilfully or
unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay or who shall wilfully or unnecessarily
attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully driving or
traveling along or upon any street or thoroughfare within the city shall be
guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., no date; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 13
AUCTION SALES
(Rep. by Ord. 01-0805, 8-6-2001)
CHAPTER 14
TATTOOING AND BODY PIERCING
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Establishment Permit Required
3-14-3: Applications For Permits; Approval
3-14-4: Issuance Or Denial Of Establishment Permit
3-14-5: Fees
3-14-6: Conditions Of Permits
3-14-7: Establishment Requirements
3-14-8: Health, Sanitation And Sterilization Requirements; Records Kept
3-14-9: Protection Of Minors
3-14-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permits
3-14-11: Penalties
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BRAND, BRANDED OR BRANDING: Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls,
figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin by the aid of heated
instruments comprised of metal or other materials.
CARVE, CARVED OR CARVING: Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls,
figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin with the use of, but
not limited to, knives, wires, scalpels or other materials used in surgical and
anatomical operations and dissections.
PIERCE, PIERCED OR PIERCING: Any method of perforating the skin for the purpose
of attaching ornaments such as, but not limited to, earrings, metal rings or
bars.
TATTOO, TATTOOED AND TATTOOING: Any method of placing designs, letters,
scrolls, figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin with ink or
any other substance resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of
needles or any other instruments designed to touch or puncture the skin. (Ord.
99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-2: ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or carry on the business of operating a tattooing,
body piercing, body branding or body carving establishment unless he/she
possesses a valid permit issued by the city, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, for each and every separate office or place of business conducted by
such person within the city. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-3: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS; APPROVAL:
   A.   Establishment Permit: Any person desiring a permit to operate a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving establishment shall
file a written application with the city clerk's office on a form to be
furnished by the city clerk's office. The applicant shall accompany the
application with a tender of the correct permit fee, as provided in section
3-14-5 of this chapter, and shall, in addition, furnish the following personal
information concerning the manager or other person principally in charge of the
operation of the business:
      1.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone number,
including area code.
      2.   Written proof of age consisting of a birth certificate.
      3.   Height, weight and color of hair and eyes.
      4.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application regarding the applicant's request for a permit.
      5.   The applicant shall keep and maintain liability insurance in an
amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and shall provide
evidence of such insurance upon application for or renewal of each license.
      6.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that
the information contained in the application is true and correct, with such
declaration being duly dated and signed at the city clerk's office.
   B.   Operator's Permit: A person desiring a permit to do tattooing, body
piercing, body branding or body carving shall file a written application with
the city clerk's office on a form to be furnished by the city clerk's office.
The applicant shall tender with the application the correct permit fee, as
provided in section
3-14-5 of this chapter, and shall, in addition, furnish the following:
      1.   The business address and telephone number where the tattooing, body
piercing, body branding or body carving establishment is to be operated.
      2.   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
         a.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone number,
including area code.
         b.   Written proof of age consisting of a birth certificate.
         c.   Height, weight and color of hair and eyes.
         d.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application regarding the applicant's request for a permit.
         e.   The applicant shall keep and maintain malpractice insurance in an
amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and shall provide
evidence of such insurance upon application for or renewal of each license.
         f.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the information contained in the application is true and correct, with
such declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
   C.   Approval Of Applications: Upon receiving the application for a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving establishment, or for a
permit to perform tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving, the
mayor shall review the application. The city council must give final approval
prior to any issuance of permits. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT:
The city clerk shall issue a tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body
carving establishment permit within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
application, unless he/she finds the following:
   A.   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city and, in the
case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation.
   B.   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city's
zoning, building and health regulations.
   C.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the application for the permit or in any document required
by the city in connection therewith.
   D.   The applicant has operated a tattooing, body piercing, body branding or
body carving establishment and has had a license denied, revoked or suspended
for any of the causes set forth in subsections A through C of this section by
the city or any other state or local agency within three (3) years prior to the
date of the application.
   E.   The applicant principally in charge of the operation of the business is
not over twenty one (21) years of age.
   F.   The city council has denied the permits. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-5: FEES:
   A.   Establishment License Fees:
      1.   Annual Establishment License: The annual license fee for a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving establishment permit
shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first year and one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per renewal year or any part thereof.
      2.   Temporary Establishment License: The temporary license fee for a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving establishment permit
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day or any part thereof.
   B.   Operator's Permit Fees:
      1.   Annual Operator's Permit: The annual permit fee for each person
employed on the premises that does tattooing, body piercing, body branding or
body carving shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first year and
forty dollars ($40.00) per renewal year or any part thereof.
      2.   Temporary Operator's Permit: The temporary permit fee for each
person employed on the premises that does tattooing, body piercing, body
branding or body carving shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day or any
part thereof.
   C.   Payment Of Fees; Refunds: All fees are payable to the city clerk's
office upon application and are nonrefundable. (Ord. 00-0314, 3-20-2000)
3-14-6: CONDITIONS OF PERMITS:
   A.   Nontransferability Of Establishment Permit: No tattooing, body
piercing, body branding or body carving establishment permit shall be
transferable, separable or divisible, and such authority as a permit confers
shall be conferred only on the permittee named therein.
   B.   Display Of Permits: The tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body
carving establishment permittee shall display his/her permit and that of each
and every practitioner employed in the establishment in an open and conspicuous
place on the premises of the establishment. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-7: ESTABLISHMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Standard Business Location: Tattooing, body piercing, body branding and
body carving establishments must have the following requirements:
      1.   Counter tops, chairs and work tops should be made of a material that
can be sanitized. These areas have to be disinfected between each customer.
      2.   Wastebaskets have to be lined with a plastic garbage bag.
      3.   Floors in the tattooing, body piercing, body branding and body
carving areas must be a washable surface. No wallpaper or nonwashable paint
will be allowed.
      4.   If tattooing out of a single-room establishment, a privacy curtain
or partition must be provided for those patrons who wish to have it during
their service.
      5.   Each tattooing, body piercing, body branding and body carving area
should have a sink with hot and cold running water available for sanitation
purposes before and during each service. This should be a separate sink and not
the sink in the restroom.
      6.   The tattooing, body piercing, body branding and body carving areas
should be well lit.
   B.   Business Operated Out Of Home: If a practitioner is tattooing, body
piercing, body branding and/or body carving out of his/her home and not in a
separate business situation, the tattooing, body piercing, body branding and
body carving area should be a room or rooms that also have the following
qualifications:
      1.   A separate entrance, not the same entrance as that of the living
quarters.
      2.   Solid walls and door(s) separating all working areas from the living
quarters.
      3.   A separate restroom facility from that of the living quarters. (Ord.
99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-8: HEALTH, SANITATION AND STERILIZATION REQUIREMENTS; RECORDS KEPT:
Any individual or establishment performing tattooing, body piercing, body
branding or body carving procedures shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Premises: The entire premises of the facility and all equipment shall
be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and be in good repair.
   B.   Hand Washing Standards: The operator shall wash his/her hands
thoroughly with antiseptic soap and water before starting to tattoo; the hands
shall be dried with individual, single use towels.
   C.   Cleanliness: All instruments that come into contact with the patron's
or the practitioner's hands should be either single use, able to be sanitized
or able to be sterilized. The tattoo, body piercing, body branding and body
carving areas should be cleaned and sanitized, and all items should be properly
stored or disposed of between each client.
   D.   Needle Standards: Body piercing needles should be single use while
tattooing needles may be reused if properly stored, cleaned, inspected and
sterilized between each use.
   E.   Sterilization Equipment: All tattooing, body piercing, body branding
and body carving establishments should have a working autoclave sterilizer on
the premises. A record or log that shows when the machine is cleaned and
serviced should be provided. The autoclave should be cleaned at least once a
month with a detergent specified for this use.
   F.   Health History: Any individual or establishment desiring to perform a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving procedure shall first
inquire as to whether or not the potential recipient of the procedure has a
history of any communicable disease.
   G.   Sobriety Required: Any patron or practitioner at the establishment
desiring to perform a tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving
procedure who appears to be under the influence of an intoxicating substance
shall not receive or perform a tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body
carving procedure.
   H.   Materials Standards: All pigments, dyes, colors and the like used in
performing a tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving procedure
shall only be purchased from a tattoo wholesaler and shall only be formulated
for the human body.
   I.   Record Keeping: Any individual or establishment who performs a
tattooing, body piercing, body branding or body carving procedure shall
maintain proper records of each client. The records shall include the
following:
      1.   The date on which the procedure was performed.
      2.   The name, address, telephone number and age of the client.
      3.   The name of the individual performing the procedure.
      4.   A description of the procedure.
      5.   The signature of the client.
The information required in this subsection shall be permanently recorded and
made available for examination by any city agent or employee for examination,
and shall be kept by the individual or establishment for a minimum of three (3)
years. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-9: PROTECTION OF MINORS:
Any person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, who tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of eighteen
(18) is guilty of a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 06-0805, 8-7-2006)
3-14-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS:
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to suspension or
revocation by the mayor, the city manager or a city agent and/or city employee
who has been approved by the city council to enforce this chapter for violation
of any provision of this chapter or for any grounds that would warrant the
denial or issuance of such permit in the first place. The mayor, city manager
or a city agent and/or city employee who has been approved by the city council
to enforce this chapter, upon such revocation or suspension, shall state his/
her reasons in writing, specifying the particular grounds for such revocation
or suspension. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-1999)
3-14-11: PENALTIES:
Any person and/or establishment convicted of a violation of sections
3-14-2,
3-14-7,
3-14-8 and/or
3-14-9 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for the first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
second offense and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense
thereafter. If any person and/or establishment has not had a conviction for
three (3) years or more after the last conviction of a violation, then the fine
for the next conviction of a violation will start as if it were the first
offense and other offenses, thereafter, as outlined above. (Ord. 99-0403, 4-5-
1999)
CHAPTER 15
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: Business License Requirements
3-15-3: Chauffeur License Requirements
3-15-4: Vehicle Requirements
3-15-5: Taxicab Drivers
3-15-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-15-7: Penalty
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
TAXICAB: Means and includes any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but
not operating on a fixed route.
TO ENGAGE IN THE BUSINESS OF OPERATING A TAXICAB IN THE CITY: Means and
includes parking at any place within the city for a longer period of time than
is reasonably necessary to load or unload passengers, soliciting passengers in
any manner, carrying passengers between points within the city as well as all
other activities which would constitute engaging in the business of operating a
taxicab in the city. (Ord., 10-7-1958)
3-15-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
operating a taxicab in the city without first having secured a license
therefor.
   B.   Application For License: Applications for such licenses shall be made
in writing to the clerk, and shall state thereon the name of the applicant, the
intended place of business and the number of cabs to be operated. If the
applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the president and
secretary thereof shall be given.
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee, payable in advance, for such licenses
shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for each taxicab operated. Whenever the number
of cabs so operated shall be increased during the license year, the licensee
shall notify the clerk of such change and shall pay the additional fee. Such
fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by ordinance.
   D.   Tags Or Stickers: The clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for
the number of cabs covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be
displayed in a prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use and may be
transferred to any taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from
service. The licensee shall notify the clerk of the motor number and state
license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding city tag or
sticker number.
   E.   Character Of Licensee: No such license shall be issued to or held by
any person who is not a person of good character or who has been convicted of a
felony, nor shall such license be issued to or held by any corporation if any
officer thereof would be ineligible for a license under the foregoing
conditions. (Ord., 10-7-1958)
3-15-3: CHAUFFEUR LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall drive a taxicab unless he shall have
secured a license therefor as herein provided. (Ord., 10-7-1958)
   B.   License Fee: The annual fee for a taxicab driver's license shall be ten
dollars ($10.00). (Ord., 10-7-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Competency Of Licensee: No such license shall be issued to any person
who is not competent to operate a motor vehicle or who is not familiar with the
traffic laws and ordinances. The chief of police shall examine each applicant
for a taxicab driver's license to determine the competency of the applicant,
and no such license shall be issued excepting on certificate of the chief that
the applicant has demonstrated his ability to operate a motor vehicle as
required herein.
   D.   Revocation Of License: The mayor may revoke any taxicab driver's
license for repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances or of any
ordinance provision regulating the conduct of such drivers. (Ord., 10-7-1958)
3-15-4: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State License; Equipment: No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears
a state license duly issued, and no such cab shall be operated unless it is
equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror,
and windshield wiper in good condition.
   B.   Insurance: No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond
or public liability policy as required by statute.
   C.   Taxicabs Identified: Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each
side, in letters readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the
licensee operating it. If more than one cab is operated by a licensee, each cab
shall be designated by a different number, and such number also shall so appear
on each side of such cab.
   D.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to inspect
every taxicab so often as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this section. (Ord., 10-7-1958)
3-15-5: TAXICAB DRIVERS:
   A.   Chauffeur's License Required: No person shall drive a taxicab, or be
hired or permitted to do so, unless he is duly licensed as a chauffeur.
   B.   Compliance With Traffic Rules: It shall be the duty of every driver of
a taxicab to obey all traffic rules established by state statute or municipal
ordinance.
   C.   Passengers:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to use a taxicab, provided such person is not
intoxicated and conducts himself in an orderly manner.
      2.   No person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger
without the consent of the passenger.
      3.   The driver shall take his passenger to his destination by the most
direct available route from the place where the passenger enters the cab.
   D.   Conduct Of Drivers: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab
while on duty to use any intoxicating substances or to use any profane or
obscene language, to shout or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the
peace in any way. (Ord., 10-7-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
3-15-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Failure To Pay Fare: It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or
refuse to pay the lawful fare at the termination of a trip.
   B.   Unlawful Use Of Taxicab: It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any
taxicab to be used in the perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor. (Ord., 10-7-
1958)
3-15-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord., 10-7-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 16
TRAILER COACHES AND TRAILER COACH PARKS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definitions
3-16-2: Park Licensing Requirements; Exemptions
3-16-3: Sites Within Park
3-16-4: Health, Safety And Sanitation Requirements
3-16-5: Supervision Of Park
3-16-6: Additional Park Regulations
3-16-7: Permanent Use Of Trailers
3-16-8: Penalty
3-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
TRAILER COACH: Means and includes any vehicle or similar portable structure
constructed so as to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street
and so as to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
TRAILER COACH PARK: Means and includes an area of land on which two (2) or more
occupied trailer coaches are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue,
together with any building, structure or enclosure used as part of the
equipment of such park. (Ord., 9-3-1963)
3-16-2: PARK LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain or
operate any trailer coach park in the city without having first obtained a
license therefor.
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made in
writing to the clerk, and shall contain the name of the applicant, the location
of the proposed park, and the number of trailers to be accommodated.
   C.   Park Plan: Each such application shall be accompanied by a plat or
sketch showing the size and location of all buildings and structures.
   D.   License Fees: The annual fee for such licenses shall be five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), plus five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each trailer coach
for which accommodations are provided. Whenever the number of such
accommodations is increased, this shall be reported to the clerk, and the
additional fee, if any, necessitated by such increase shall be paid before the
additional spaces are put to use. When a license is applied for, or
accommodations are increased during the license year, the fee shall be prorated
on the basis of the number of months remaining in the license year.
   E.   Restrictions On Issuance Of License: No such license shall be issued to
any but a person of good character, nor to any corporation if any officer
thereof is not a person of good character. (Ord., 9-3-1963; amd. 2001 Code)
3-16-3: SITES WITHIN PARK:
   A.   Size: Each trailer coach shall be allotted a site of not less than two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   B.   Location Of Trailer On Site: No trailer coach shall be parked closer
than ten feet (10') to the side lot lines of a trailer coach park, if the
abutting property is improved property, or closer than fifteen feet (15') to a
public street, alley or building.
   C.   Driveway: Each individual trailer site shall abut or face on a driveway
or clear, unoccupied space of not less than twenty five feet (25') in width,
which space shall have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley.
   D.   Open Space Requirements: There shall be an open space of at least
fifteen feet (15') between the sides of every trailer coach and at least ten
feet (10') between the ends of every trailer coach. (Ord., 9-3-1963; amd. 2001
Code)
3-16-4: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water Supply:
      1.   City Water: An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes from the city water supply system shall be supplied to meet
the requirements of said trailer coach park.
      2.   Faucets: The water shall be obtained from faucets only, conveniently
located in the park.
      3.   Common Drinking Cups Prohibited: No common drinking cups shall be
permitted.
      4.   Metered Water: Water meters shall be installed within the park.
   B.   Sanitary Facilities; Sewage Disposal: Each trailer coach park shall
provide toilets and showers which shall comply with the provisions of the
ordinances relating thereto, with separate accommodations for men and women,
and shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system of the city. A connection
to a septic tank is prohibited. (Ord., 9-3-1963; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Garbage: It shall be the duty of the owner, his agent or caretaker, to
provide for the collection and removal of garbage or other waste material and
to otherwise maintain the park in a clean and sanitary condition.
   D.   Lighting: The parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at
all times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors. (Ord.,
9-3-1963)
3-16-5: SUPERVISION OF PARK:
Each trailer coach park, while operated, shall be in the charge of a
responsible attendant or caretaker at all times, who shall be responsible, with
the licensee, for compliance with the provisions of this chapter relating to
the conduct of such parks. It shall be unlawful to hire or keep as manager,
superintendent or person in the charge of a trailer coach park any person who
is not a person of good character, or any person who has been convicted of a
felony. (Ord., 9-3-1963)
3-16-6: ADDITIONAL PARK REGULATIONS:
In compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the
licensee and person in charge of the trailer coach park to comply fully with
the provisions of 210 Illinois Statutes 115/1 et seq. (Ord., 9-3-1963; amd.
2001 Code)
3-16-7: PERMANENT USE OF TRAILERS:
   A.   Location In Licensed Park: It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain any trailer coach, used for human habitation, upon any plot of ground
in the city except in a licensed trailer park. (Ord., 9-3-1963; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Permit Required To Permanently Place Trailer: It shall be unlawful for
any person to remove the wheels or other transporting device from any trailer
coach or otherwise to affix said trailer coach permanently to the ground so as
to prevent ready removal of such trailer coach, unless a permit to do so is
obtained as required for the construction of a new building. Any such
alteration shall be construed as converting the trailer coach into a building
and subject to the requirements of the zoning and building ordinances.
   C.   Compliance With Single-Family Dwelling Regulations: It shall be
unlawful to occupy for sleeping or other residence purposes any trailer coach
which has been rendered immobile by the removal of wheels, or placing the same
on a foundation, or on the ground, unless such trailer coach, in construction
and location, complies with the ordinances relating to the construction,
wiring, plumbing, sewer facilities and other regulations applicable to single-
family dwellings. (Ord., 9-3-1963)
3-16-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord., 9-3-1963; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 17
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-17-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-17-2: Definitions
3-17-3: License
3-17-4: License Application Requirements
3-17-5: Application Filing; Renewals
3-17-6: License Fees
3-17-7: License Revocation Or Suspension
3-17-8: Limitation On Number Of Video Gaming Terminals On Premises
3-17-9: Prohibition
3-17-10: Exceptions
3-17-11: Licensed Establishments
3-17-12: Seizure Of Unauthorized Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds
3-17-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD:                             The Illinois Gaming Board.
                                   As defined in Section 18b-101 of the
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES:         Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-
                                   101.
                                   Any business licensed by the State of
                                   Illinois to have or operate a video
                                   gaming device in the City, including any
                                   licensed fraternal establishment,
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT:            licensed veterans' establishment,
                                   licensed truck stop establishment and
                                   licensed large truck stop establishment
                                   as those terms are defined in the VGA,
                                   230 ILCS 40/5.
                                   The location where a qualified fraternal
LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT:  organization that derives its charter
                                   from a national fraternal organization
                                   regularly meets.
                                   A facility located within three (3) road
                                   miles from a freeway interchange, as
                                   measured in accordance with the
                                   Department of Transportation's rules
                                   regarding the criteria for the
                                   installation of business signs: (i) that
                                   is at least a three (3) acre facility
                                   with a convenience store; (ii) with
LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP          separate diesel islands for fueling
ESTABLISHMENT:                     commercial motor vehicles; (iii) that
                                   sells at retail more than fifty thousand
                                   (50,000) gallons of diesel or biodiesel
                                   fuel per month; and (iv) with parking
                                   spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
                                   The requirement of item (iii) of this
                                   definition may be met by showing that
                                   estimated future sales or past sales
                                   average at least fifty thousand (50,000)
                                   gallons per month.
                                   A facility (i) that is at least a three
                                   (3) acre facility with a convenience
                                   store; (ii) with separate diesel islands
                                   for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
                                   (iii) that sells at retail more than ten
                                   thousand (10,000) gallons of diesel or
LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT: biodiesel fuel per month; and (iv) with
                                   parking spaces for commercial motor
                                   vehicles. The requirement of item (iii)
                                   of this paragraph may be met by showing
                                   that estimated future sales or past
                                   sales average at least ten thousand
                                   (10,000) gallons per month.
                                   The location where a qualified veteran's
LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT:   organization that derives its charter
                                   from a national veteran's organization
                                   regularly meets.
                                   Any electronic video game machine that,
                                   upon insertion of cash, is available to
                                   play or simulate the play of a video
                                   game, including but not limited to,
                                   video poker, line up and blackjack, as
                                   authorized by the Board utilizing a
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL:             video display and microprocessors in
                                   which the player may receive free games
                                   or credits that can be redeemed for
                                   cash. The term does not include a
                                   machine that directly dispenses coins,
                                   cash or tokens or is for amusement
                                   purposes only. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
 
3-17-3: LICENSE:
   A.   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer, or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the City without first
having obtained a video gaming license from the City. The license provided for
in this chapter shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals at
the specified establishment.
   B.   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer, or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the City,
nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video gaming
license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue to be
met:
      1.   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
State of Illinois permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same.
      2.   The establishment has been in operation at the location for at least
twelve (12) months at the time the application is filed.
      3.   The establishment must maintain customer seating outside of the
gaming area but within the premises at a ratio of at least five (5) seats for
each permitted video gaming terminal.
      4.   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee, or bill due to the
City or State of Illinois.
      5.   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in section
3-17-4 of this chapter and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling
offense, or crime of moral turpitude; and
      6.   The establishment is located outside of a residential zoning
district.
   C.   Except for large truck stop establishments, to be eligible to have
video gaming at an establishment, the net terminal income generated at the
establishment from video gaming cannot exceed eighty percent (80%) of the total
gross revenues generated.
   D.   Large truck stop and regular truck stop establishments do not need to
meet the requirements set forth in subsection C of this section.
   E.   A new establishment must meet the requirements of subsection B2 unless
the applicant is also a current majority owner of au existing business at
another location, that has been in operation for at least twelve (12) months,
and the business model for the new establishment is proposed to replicate the
existing business location and the applicant can provide satisfactory evidence
detailing that in the last twelve (12) month period video gaming net terminal
income at the other business location did not exceed eighty (80%) of the gross
revenues. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by a majority vote of
the East Dubuque City Council.
   F.   The mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses. In the
event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any action taken by the
mayor, an appeal may be made directly to the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after written notice of the action from which an appeal is
made. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022; amd. Ord. 23-0327, 3-27-2023)
3-17-4: LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The license applicant shall provide the following information to the City on a
form provided by the City:
   A.   The legal name of the establishment.
   B.   The business name of the establishment.
   C.   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located.
   D.   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification.
   E.   A floor plan, drawn to scale, detailing the overall layout of the
establishment, including the location and count of dining seating, the location
and count of video gaming terminals and seating for said terminals, and other
significant features of the establishment, including exit locations, restrooms,
and other equipment. A paper printed copy (no smaller than eight and a half
inches by eleven inches (8.5" x 11")) shall be submitted at the time of
application.
   F.   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place.
   G.   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment.
   H.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee.
   I.   A phone number for the establishment.
   J.   An e-mail address for the establishment.
   K.   The name and address of every person owning more than a five percent
(5%) share of the establishment.
   L.   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment.
   M.   A copy of the establishment's State of Illinois video gaming license.
   N.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or partnership,
a copy of the establishment's state certificate of good standing.
   O.   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed six (6) for all
establishments).
   P.   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee,
or bill due to the City or State of Illinois.
   Q.   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance.
   R.   A statement that no manager or owner with more than five percent (5%)
interest in the establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling
offense, or a crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment
cannot provide such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of
rehabilitation from the City Manager indicating that the individual who would
disqualify the establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has been
rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to violate the law. The City Manager
may consider the nature of the offense, the length of time since the offense,
the length of time since release from custody and other factors to determine if
the individual has been rehabilitated such that he or she is no longer likely
to commit another offense.
   S.   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior twelve (12) month period,
proof of the length of time the existing business has been operational and
proof of ownership verifying the applicant's ownership rights;
   T.   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-
2022)
3-17-5: APPLICATION FILING; RENEWALS:
   A.   Applications shall be processed by the City on a first come, first
served basis. An application received in the mail shall be considered filed on
the date and time it is opened by the City.
   B.   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
section
3-17-4. Renewal applications shall be due on or before November 1 unless that
day falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be received by the
Clerk on the following business day. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-6: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per terminal annually. The fee for each video gaming terminal
shall be paid by the video gaming terminal operator.
The application fee is not subject to reimbursement or refund upon denial of a
license.
Said fees are not subject to proration or refund and are due prior to issuance
of the license.
All licenses required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed next to
the video gaming terminal. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-7: LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this chapter within five
(5) business days of any charge of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming terminal. After a
hearing presided over by the Mayor, the Mayor may order the revocation of the
license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and the license shall
thereupon be terminated. The licensee may appeal the revocation as prescribed
in subsection
3-17-3F.
In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or registration under
this Section, such person shall not be issued any license provided for in this
chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-8: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES:
There shall be no more than six (6) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any one location,
other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
There shall be no more than six (6) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any licensed large
truck stop establishment. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-9: PROHIBITION:
Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the City, or for any person or
entity which owns, occupies, or controls an establishment within the City to
knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-10: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-11: LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS:
Any business, liquor, or food licensee within the corporate limits of the City
that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this section shall be
subject to having his/her/its license immediately revoked for a period of sixty
(60) days. Any business, liquor, or food licensee within the corporate limits
of the City that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
chapter a second time shall have his/her/its license permanently revoked and,
thereafter, barred from obtaining any business, liquor, or food license within
the City. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
3-17-12: SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS:
Any gambling device which is not authorized by this chapter shall be subject to
immediate seizure and confiscation by the City. Any money or other thing of
value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this chapter
shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such gambling
devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance with the
law. (Ord. 22-0210, 2-7-2022)
CHAPTER 18
TEEN DANCE HALLS
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: License Required
3-18-3: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-18-4: Contents Of Application
3-18-5: Floor Space
3-18-6: Fees
3-18-7: Investigation
3-18-8: Issuance
3-18-9: Posting
3-18-10: Revocation And Suspension
3-18-11: Reporting Incidents To Police; Telephone Required; Mandatory Closing
3-18-12: Illegal Activities On Premises
3-18-13: Youth Dance Restrictions
3-18-14: Violation And Penalty
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
TEEN DANCE: Dance open to the public which permits the entry of persons under
the age of eighteen (18) years and which: a) is conducted for a profit, direct
or indirect; or b) requires a monetary payment or contribution from the persons
admitted.
TEEN DANCE HALL: Any place or premises where a teen dance is conducted,
including, but not limited to, all parking areas, hallways, bathrooms and all
adjoining areas accessible to the public during the dance. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-
2009)
3-18-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer, or agent, or in
any other capacity shall operate or permit to be operated a teen dance hall
without having first obtained a license to do so.
   B.   The entire annual license fee shall be paid for the applicable calendar
year regardless of when the application for license is made, and shall not be
prorated for any part of the year.
   C.   Teen dance halls are not permitted to have a liquor license in
conjunction with a teen dance license. No liquor will be permitted on the
premises for resale. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
No teen dance license shall be required for a youth dance sponsored by a public
or private school for a school related activity. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
An application for a teen dance hall license required by this chapter shall be
made in writing to the city clerk which shall set forth the following:
   A.   The name of the individual, partnership, corporation, association, or
other entity applying for the license.
   B.   The residence, phone number, and driver's license number of the
applicant or partners; or, if a corporation or association, the residence phone
number, and driver's license number of the officers, directors, and principal
shareholders and parties in interest, who own five percent (5%) or more of the
shares or ownership interests in the entity. Copy of driver's license is
required.
   C.   The address and legal description of the location for which the license
is requested, including a scale drawing of the premises clearly indicating all
areas within or adjoining the building or structure which are to be used in
connection with the dance establishment activities or are accessible from it,
including off street parking, seating capacity, and floor space, section
3-18-5 of this chapter.
   D.   The name and address of the owner of the building if the owner is not
the applicant, including a copy of the lease.
   E.   Whether the applicant, officers, partners, directors, or the principal
shareholders or parties in interest of the corporation or association or the
corporation or association itself have been convicted of a criminal offense or
ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking offenses) in any
jurisdiction, and, if so, a list of such convictions with date and prosecuting
jurisdiction.
   F.   The following additional information must be provided:
      1.   The method by which age identification shall be established.
      2.   The method by which security shall be provided both inside and
outside of the dance establishment. How many adults per teen ratio.
      3.   The method by which youth shall be supervised in and about the
premises.
      4.   Residence, phone number, driver's license number of all employees or
persons who will be utilized to provide supervision in connection with such
youth dance.
      5.   Authorization for criminal background checks for the owner and all
employees of the licensed establishment.
      6.   Copies of sales tax certificate, health department inspection
report, and liability insurance. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-5: FLOOR SPACE:
   A.   A minimum dance floor space area of two hundred twenty five (225)
square feet and shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in any one direction.
   B.   The dance space shall be located in one room and on one level and shall
be maintained and used exclusively for dancing during a public dance.
   C.   No booth more than forty inches (40") in height shall be located
adjoining the dance area.
   D.   The perimeter of the dance floor space area shall be designated by the
operator of the dance hall in such a manner that the same is visible at all
times.
   E.   An inspection by the fire department must be scheduled and an occupancy
certificate be issued.
   F.   Any changes in the size of the dance floor space must be approved by
the fire department. Failure to do so shall be grounds for revocation of the
license. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-6: FEES:
   A.   Teen Dance Hall License: The fee for a teen dance hall license shall be
thirty dollars ($30.00) per night or three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year.
Any licensee holding ten (10) youth dances in any one calendar year shall be
deemed to have paid for a yearly teen dance hall license which may be issued
upon approval of the application. All licenses expire on December 31.
   B.   Investigation Fees: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per background
investigation; payable upon submission of the application.
   C.   Coin Operated Amusement Machines: Licensing required and fees apply.
(Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-7: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a teen dance hall license, the mayor shall
cause a copy of the authorization for background check(s) to be sent to the
police department for a background check. A decision on the application filed
with the city will be made within fifteen (15) days whether the location for
which the license is sought meets applicable city codes and whether the
applicant meets the requirement for issuance of the license requested. (Ord.
09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-8: ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of the report the mayor shall direct the city clerk to issue the
license requested unless the mayor shall find:
   A.   That the applicant is under the age of eighteen (18);
   B.   That the operation of the dance hall as proposed would not comply with
all the applicable laws, including, but not limited to, building, health,
zoning, and fire codes of the city;
   C.   That the applicant, or any officers, partners, directors, or the
principal shareholders or parties in interest therein have held a license or
had an interest in a license issued pursuant to this chapter that was revoked
for cause;
   D.   That the applicant, or any officers, partners, directors, or the
principal shareholders or parties in interest have been convicted of any
offense against children or have been declared a sexually dangerous person
pursuant to the laws of the state or any similar law of the United States or of
any other state;
   E.   The premises for which a license is requested, including required off
street parking, is within five hundred feet (500') of any residential zoned
district as defined in the zoning code of the city or any school; or
   F.   The methods proposed for age identification, security, or supervision
pursuant to section
3-18-4 of this chapter are inadequate or inappropriate. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-
2009)
3-18-9: POSTING:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall, at all times
during the period for which it is effective, be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the principal entrance to the premises for which the license is
issued. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-10: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION:
   A.   The license may be revoked or suspended for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days by the mayor until the findings of a hearing have been
prepared:
      1.   That the licensee, or any of its employees, officers, agents, or
representatives, have violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the laws
of Illinois, or ordinances of the city at the licensed location;
      2.   That the licensee, or any of its officers, directors, or principal
shareholders have been convicted of any offense set forth in section
3-18-8 of this chapter;
      3.   The licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading information
or withheld relevant information on any application for a license required by
section
3-18-4 of this chapter or any investigation into any such application.
   B.   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of its agents, servants,
and employees in the operation of any licensed dance hall. Prior to holding a
hearing concerning the question of whether a license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be revoked or suspended, the mayor shall give at least ten (10)
days' written notice to the licensee setting forth the alleged violations
specifically. Notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to licensee at the address provided by
licensee in its application. The licensee may present evidence at such hearing
and cross examine witnesses. In lieu of or in addition to a suspension of the
license, the mayor may after a hearing, impose additional operating conditions
as set forth in subsection
3-18-13D of this chapter. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-11: REPORTING INCIDENTS TO POLICE; TELEPHONE REQUIRED; MANDATORY CLOSING:
   A.   Each licensee and each of its agents and employees shall promptly
report to the police department of the city any incident occurring on or about
the licensed premises relating to the commission or suspected commission of any
crime, including, but not limited to, any violation of this chapter, any
violation of ordinances or laws concerning the sale, possession, or consumption
of alcoholic liquor, any violation of ordinances or laws concerning the sale of
controlled substances or cannabis, any violation of laws concerning the
abduction or the physical or sexual abuse of children, or any fights, assaults,
or batteries, and shall truthfully and fully answer all questions and
investigations of any identified police officer who makes inquiry concerning
any persons in or about the licensed premises, and cooperate fully in any such
investigation, including the giving of any oral or written statements at such
reasonable times and in such reasonable locations to any police officer engaged
in such investigation.
   B.   Each licensee shall maintain on each licensed premises not less than
one telephone in operating order, which phone must be easily accessible to the
responsible person in charge of the premises and to other employees on the
premises at all times for the purpose of conveniently reporting to the police
department incidents occurring on or about the licensed premises.
   C.   If a disturbance occurs on or about the licensed premises during the
hours of operation which in the judgment of the chief of police or the ranking
command officer of the police department on duty creates an imminent danger to
lives or property, the chief or ranking command officer may, if in his
professional judgment it is reasonably necessary in order to restore order and
protect lives and property, order the licensed establishment to close its
business for such period of time as is reasonably necessary, but not later than
the next business day, and may order all patrons to leave the licensed premises
immediately. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-12: ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES:
No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or suffer or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
licensed premises which is prohibited by an ordinance of the city or law of the
state of Illinois or the United States. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-13: YOUTH DANCE RESTRICTIONS:
During any youth dance conducted on the licensed premises, the following
restrictions shall apply:
   A.   Age Restriction: Other than parents, guardian, chaperone, or staff, no
one other than youth not younger than fourteen (14) years and not older than
nineteen (19) years shall be allowed in the establishment.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: During the school year, the establishment must
close no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday. On Friday
and Saturday, the establishment must close no later than twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight or East Dubuque teen curfew law. All other provisions and requirements
of this code and the state law relating to curfew and to the operation of a
licensed teen dance hall shall remain in effect.
   C.   Prevention Of Disturbance To Neighborhood: A licensee shall take all
such reasonable precautions, including, but not limited to, erection of
acoustical or other barriers and providing supervisory or security personnel to
adequately prevent the unreasonable disturbance of the peace and tranquility of
the neighborhood and the free and unencumbered access of the general public to
street, sidewalks, and public areas in and around the licensed premises.
   D.   Additional Conditions: Additional written operating conditions
consistent with this chapter may be imposed by the mayor for the license, which
conditions will be deemed to be with the agreement of the licensee and made a
part of the license, if such license is granted and accepted.
   E.   Coin Operated Amusement Machines: Youth are limited to playing only
arcade style coin operated amusement machines. All machines must be licensed
with the city.
   F.   Alcohol Prohibited: No alcohol allowed on the premises for public or
private use. (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
3-18-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 09-1104, 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 19
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-19-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-19-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-19-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord. 19-
0905, 9-3-2019)
3-19-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 19-0905, 9-3-2019)
TITLE 4
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created
4-1-2: Fire Chief
4-1-3: Duties And Conduct Of Department Members
4-1-4: Investigation Of Fires
4-1-5: Property Removed From Fire Scene
4-1-6: Spectators At Fire
4-1-7: Rules And Regulations
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Volunteer Fire Department for the City. The
Volunteer Fire Department, in addition to the Fire Chief, shall consist of such
other members as may be provided, from time to time, by the Mayor and City
Council. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Term Of Office: The Volunteer Fire Department shall be
under the charge of the Fire Chief who shall be elected by the Volunteer Fire
Department members, and confirmed by the City Council, and shall serve at the
pleasure of the City Manager and City Council.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The Fire Chief, as Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, shall be
responsible for the care of the apparatus belonging thereto and the performance
of duties by the members of the department. The Chief shall keep such records
and make such reports regarding the activities of his department as may be
required by the City Manager and City Council.
      2.   The Fire Chief, or his designated representative, has the authority
to conduct inspections and address fire hazards and life safety issues as set
forth in the Life Safety Code NFPA standard 101, as per Illinois State minimum
Fire Code. The Fire Chief or his designated representative shall use the Life
Safety Code when he encounters an unsafe fire condition, or a life threatening
safety condition. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   The City of East Dubuque Volunteer Fire Department will adopt the
2015 edition of the Life Safety Code, excluding language mandating residential
sprinkler systems on new construction or those for existing buildings. (Ord.
17-0415, 4-17-2017)
4-1-3: DUTIES AND CONDUCT OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   Duties: Members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible
for extinguishing accidental or destructive fires, and emergency medical or
rescue services occurring in the City and within the fire district and
enforcing all ordinances relating to fire hazard.
   B.   Conduct: The Fire Chief and, in his absence, such persons as he may
designate by departmental rules, shall have charge of the activities of the
department. All members of the department shall obey the orders and directions
of the Fire Chief. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001)
4-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF FIRES:
The Fire Chief or his designated agent shall investigate the cause of any fire
related activity in the City or within the fire district. In case there is
reason to suspect that there was any criminal act or violation of an ordinance
in connection therewith, the Chief shall report the suspected violation or
criminal act to the proper authorities. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001; amd. 2001
Code)
4-1-5: PROPERTY REMOVED FROM FIRE SCENE:
The members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall have charge of the scene and
of any property removed from the scene of a fire to avoid loss or damage of the
property until it is turned over to the owner or agent for the owner thereof.
All property seized as evidence for investigation purposes shall be maintained
in a documented chain of custody. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001)
4-1-6: SPECTATORS AT FIRE:
Spectators at fires or any emergency scene shall obey all the orders of the
members of the Volunteer Fire Department on duty there with respect to keeping
away from the scene of the fire or emergency response, or the handling of
apparatus or interference with the apparatus of the department. (Ord. 01-0206,
2-5-2001)
4-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Volunteer Fire Department members shall make or prescribe such rules and
regulations for the conduct and guidance of the members of the department. Such
rules, when approved by the City Manager or City Council, shall be binding on
the members. (Ord. 01-0206, 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Mitigation Rates
4-2-2: Collection Rates
4-2-1: MITIGATION RATES:
   A.   The East Dubuque fire department shall initiate mitigation rates for
the delivery of emergency and nonemergency services by the fire department for
personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and nonemergency
incidents as listed in "exhibit A" attached to the ordinance codified herein.
The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services and that
which is usual, customary and reasonable.
   B.   The city council shall establish a collection and billing system in
accordance with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines.
   C.   Mitigation rates will only apply to persons who are not residents of
East Dubuque. Residents within the East Dubuque fire department boundaries
currently subsidize these emergency service costs through their property taxes.
Responses involving intoxicated drivers, HAZMAT cleanup, fire alarms,
intentional and negligent acts or any act that violates any ordinance, local,
state or federal statute may be subject to all applicable rates regardless of
residency. For purposes of this section a resident is defined as: a) any person
who maintains his or her full time residence within the East Dubuque fire
department boundaries; or b) is the majority owner of a business that operates
from real property owned by the business located within the East Dubuque fire
department boundaries. (For purposes of this section a business includes any
joint stock company, corporation, association, joint venture, limited liability
company, club or partnership.)
(Ord. 11-0912, 9-19-2011)
4-2-2: COLLECTION RATES:
   A.   Charges: District residential rate will pay two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year with rate due July 1st.
   B.   Charges: District commercial rate will pay two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year with rate due July 1st.
(Ord. 24-0437, 4-29-2024)
CHAPTER 3
AMBULANCE SERVICE DEPARTMENT
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 4
ALARM SYSTEMS
(Reserved)
 
CHAPTER 5
OUTDOOR BURNING
SECTION:
4-5-1: Recreational Fires
4-5-2: Open Burning And Burn Ban
4-5-1: RECREATIONAL FIRES:
Recreational and portable outdoor fireplace fires can be great family fun as
long as a few basic rules are followed, No fewer than one portable fire
extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved onsite fire-
extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, or garden hose, shall be available
for immediate utilization.
   A.   Wind Direction: Always be a good neighbor and be aware of wind
direction. Your neighbor probably won’t be happy if their windows are open or
if their clean laundry is on the line.
   B.   Fuel/Wood: Fuel used must be strictly limited to charcoal products or
natural growing form wood, dried, split, or sawn to lengths no greater than
four (4) feet. No processed wood such as 2x4s, plywood, building materials,
etc. may be burned. Burning paper, garden waste, rubbish, refuse, grass, leaves
or brush is prohibited.
   C.   Smoke: Atmospheric conditions should be such that smoke and gases arc
allowed to rise up and away. If smoke, gases, or fire become a public nuisance,
the fire must be extinguished. All complaints will be directed to the fire
department and a representative will respond to complaints and decide as to
whether the fire or smoke is a nuisance.
   D.   Recreational Fire:
      1.   An outdoor fire consisting of approved fuels is listed above where
the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace,
portable outdoor fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit, and has a total
fuel are of four (4) feet or less in diameter and two (2) feet or less in
height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth, or similar
purposes.
      2.   Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet of a
structure or combustible material.
      3.   Conditions that would cause a fire to spread with 25 feet of a
structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
      4.   Recreational fires shall be constantly attended until the fire is
extinguished.
   E.   Grill: For other than one- and two-family dwellings, no hibachi, grill,
electric grill, or other similar devices used for cooking, heating, or any
other purpose shall be used or kindled on any balcony, under any overhanging
portion, or within 10 feet of any structure. (Ord. 23-0815, 8-21-2023)
4-5-2: OPEN BURNING AND BURN BAN:
   A.   The fire department may extinguish any open bum that presents a clear,
present, and unreasonable danger to persons or adjacent property or that
presents an unreasonable risk because of wind, weather, or the types of
combustibles. The unreasonable risk may include the height of flames, windblown
embers, the creation of hazardous fumes, or an unattended fire. Fire
departments may not unreasonably interfere with permitted and legal open
burning.
   B.   The Fire Chief or any other designated officer of the fire department
under this ordinance may, with the authorization of the City Manager, prohibit
open burning within the city on an emergency basis, for a limited period of
time, if (I) the atmospheric conditions or other circumstances create an
unreasonable risk of fire because of wind, weather, or the types of
combustibles and (ii) the resources of the fire department are not sufficient
to control and suppress a fire resulting from one or more of the conditions or
circumstances described in clause (I) of this subsection. For the purposes of
this subsection, “open burning” includes, but is not limited to, the burning of
landscape waste, agricultural waste, household trash, and garbage.
   C.   The Fire Chief or any other designated officer of a fire department may
fix, charge, and collect fees associated with the fire department extinguishing
an open burning that is prohibited. The fee may be imposed against any person
causing or engaging in the prohibited activity. The total amount collected as
compensation of the fire department shall be assessed in accordance with the
Fire Chiefs determination of the cost of personnel and equipment utilized to
extinguish the fire.
   D.   This does not authorize the open burning of any waste. The open burning
of waste is subject to the restrictions and prohibitions of the Environmental
Protection Act and the rules and regulations adopted under its authority. (Ord.
23-0815, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 6
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Spills Prohibited
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Hazardous Material Responses; Cost reimbursement; Expense Reimbursement
To The City
4-6-4: Fault Not To Be Considered
4-6-5: Distribution Of Reimbursed Costs; Replacement Of Material(s) And/Or
Other Expenses
4-6-6: Regulation Or Remedies
4-6-1: SPILLS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful, whether intentional or unintentional, for any person,
firm or corporation to release, emit, spill or leak any hazardous material. It
shall also be unlawful to create or permit any situation which constitutes a
hazardous material incident. (Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.   City: Any department or division of the city.
   B.   Expenses to the City: All costs and expenses to the city incurred in
the cleanup or abatement of hazardous materials or the extinguishing of a fire
involving hazardous materials, and shall include without limitation the
following:
      1.   Actual labor costs of city personnel involved in the cleanup or
abatement of the discharge(s), including without limitation workers’
compensation benefits, fringe benefit and administrative overhead or any other
medical expenses, immediate or long-term, of personnel exposed to the hazardous
material;
      2.   Cost of equipment operation, damage or loss as established by the
city;
      3.   Cost of materials ordered directly by the city; and
      4.   The cost of any labor and material(s) expended through the retention
of other parties to assist in cleanup or abatement and the repair of the
property in the area of the incident.
   C.   Hazardous Material Incident: The leakage, release, seepage or other
emission of any substance or material which, due to its quantity, form,
concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the Fire
Chief or his or her authorized representative to be a hazardous waste, based
upon a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, to pose an unreasonable and
inordinate risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance or the environment, including without limitation explosives,
compressed gases, flammable and combustible liquids, flammable and water-
reactive solids, oxidizers and peroxides, poisons, radioactive materials,
corrosives or otherwise regulated materials, or any substance determined to be
hazardous, toxic or a special waste under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   D.   Hazardous Waste: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative to be a hazardous waste,
based upon a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, to pose an unreasonable
and inordinate risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to
the ecological balance or the environment, including without limitation
explosives, compressed gases, flammable and combustible liquids, flammable and
water-reactive solids, oxidizers and peroxides, poisons, radioactive materials,
corrosives or otherwise regulated materials, or any substance determined to be
hazardous, toxic or a special waste under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation. (Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
4-6-3: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSES; COST REIMBURSEMENT; EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT
TO THE CITY:
The person in immediate control or possession of the hazardous material(s) at a
hazardous material incident, to which a department or division of the city has
responded, shall be responsible for handling or the cleanup of the material(s).
There shall be joint and several liability for reimbursement, including but not
limited to the persons(s) or the entities in immediate control of the hazardous
material(s), the shipper, the manufacturer, the distributor, the transporter of
the material(s) involved, or third parties having caused or contributed to the
cause of the release of the hazardous material(s). (Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
4-6-4: FAULT NOT TO BE CONSIDERED:
The person or company in immediate control or possession of the hazardous
material at a hazardous materials incident shall be liable for any other costs,
fees or expenses of whatever kind or nature which are incurred by the city or
its agent in the abatement, cleanup or repair. The fault of the entity in
immediate control or possession shall not be an issue in the attachment of any
liability created by, arising out of, or related to this subchapter. For the
purpose of this subchapter, REPAIR shall mean, without exception, the return of
the property to the condition that existed immediately prior to the incident.
(Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
4-6-5: DISTRIBUTION OF REIMBURSED COSTS; REPLACEMENT OF MATERIAL(S) AND/OR
OTHER EXPENSES:
Any reimbursement funds generated pursuant to this subchapter, or otherwise,
may be used to replenish the supplies used by the city at the scene of the
hazardous material(s) incident. The supplies may include without limitation
protective clothing, absorbents, neutralizing chemicals, detection monitoring
equipment, firefighting foams and chemicals, overtime personnel expenses,
laboratory analysis, medical treatment, immediate and long-term, of exposed or
injured personnel, or equipment or supplies damaged or destroyed by exposure to
the hazardous material(s) at the incident. (Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
4-6-6: REGULATION OR REMEDIES:
Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to relieve any party from any other
obligation or responsibilities that it might otherwise have under law to any
person or other agency. (Ord. 23-0816, 8-21-2023)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-2: Enforcement
5-1-3: Penalty
5-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
person, within the territorial limits of the city, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: Any act or offense which is a nuisance according
to the common law of the state, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the city. In addition, the officials of the city shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use
by a person of property, real or personal, or from his own improper, indecent
or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   Animal Carcasses; Offal:
      1.   To cause the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or noisome
substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under his
ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
      2.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   C.   Polluting Water: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   D.   Stagnant Water: To permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises to the prejudice of others.
   E.   Garbage Accumulation; Putrid Or Offensive Conditions: To deposit or
permit to remain upon any premises, or public street or alley, slops or animal
or vegetable matter of any kind which is or is likely to become putrid or
offensive.
   F.   Obstructing Public Ways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places.
   G.   Obstructing View At Intersections: To construct or maintain any sign,
earth embankment, fence, hedge, tree or shrub obstructing a clear view at any
corner of a road or street intersection between points twenty feet (20') back
from the intersection of the roadways, and to the corner thereof, and four feet
(4') above the crown of each intersecting roadway.
   H.   Offensive Businesses: To erect, continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals, or of the public.
   I.   Unauthorized Advertisements: To advertise wares or occupation by
painting notices of the same on, or affixing them to, fences, walls, windows,
building exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public or private
property, or on rocks or other natural objects, without the consent of the
owner, or if in the highway or other public place, without permission of the
proper authorities.
   J.   Dumping And/Or Burning Ashes, Junk Vehicles, Miscellaneous Waste: To
dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property or right of
way, highway, park, or street ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or
parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste.
   K.   Junk Storage: To store, keep, or maintain outside of a closed building,
any junk; refuse; used appliances; used or dilapidated furniture; bathroom
fixtures; tires; old iron or metal; used lumber, bricks, blocks or other
building salvage materials; parts; and machinery or equipment not in an
operable condition, where such matter is an actual danger or detriment to life,
safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the property of surrounding property
owners; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly
licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor storage use which is in full
compliance with all of the ordinances of the city governing the same.
   L.   Dangerous Buildings: To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for
human habitation, or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because
of lack of repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the
existence of contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause
sickness among persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity
thereof.
   M.   Animals:
      1.   Animal Pests: To store or place any materials in a manner which may
harbor mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents, nuisance birds, or other animals
pests that are offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the health of individuals
or the public.
      2.   Offensive Animal Houses: To suffer or permit any premises where any
animal is kept to become nauseous, foul or offensive to any person, family or
neighborhood.
   N.   Noisy, Offensive Conditions:
      1.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any loud, excessive, frequent, continuous or offensive noise to the
disturbance of the peace or quiet of any person residing in the vicinity.
      2.   To use, operate, or permit to be played, used or operated any radio
or television receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine
or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring inhabitants or, at any
time, with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device
is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto.
      3.   To use, operate, or permit to be used or operated any device that
emits an ultrasonic sound designed for pest, dog, or animal control, or any
device that utilizes a bright flashing light for pest, dog, or animal control.
(Ord. 00-1127, 11-20-2000; amd. Ord. 22-0329, 3-28-2022)
5-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute proceedings in
the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 00-1127, 11-
20-2000; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each and every offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to
be a separate offense. (Ord. 00-1127, 11-20-2000)
CHAPTER 2
ANTI-PILLAGING AND SCAVENGING
SECTION:
5-2-1: Unauthorized Removal Of Recyclables Prohibited
5-2-2: Use Of Collection Locations Restricted
5-2-3: Penalties
5-2-1: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, unless under contract with the city or a city
employee, to collect or remove any recyclable newsprint, magazines, glass,
plastic, aluminum cans, metal cans, or corrugated cardboard which has been
deposited in an official East Dubuque recycling tote and been placed by any
person on the roadway adjoining his/her premises for collection by the city.
(Ord., 7-17-1995)
5-2-2: USE OF COLLECTION LOCATIONS RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person other than a city resident or otherwise lawfully
authorized user to deposit recyclable materials at any collection location in
the city. (Ord., 7-17-1995)
5-2-3: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a written warning on
the first offense, a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine for the second offense,
and a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine for each subsequent offense within a
twelve (12) month period. (Ord., 7-17-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LITTERING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Littering Prohibited
5-3-2: Placing Yard And Tree Waste
5-3-3: Removing Yard And Tree Waste
5-3-4: Responsibility For Removal Of Yard And Tree Waste
5-3-5: Penalty
5-3-1: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or company to throw, place, leave, cause or
permit to be thrown, placed or left, any filth, rubbish, garbage, papers,
bottles, cans or containers of any type or nature whatsoever in or upon any
public or private property in the city or upon or into any river, lake, pond,
ditch, creek, storm sewer, or any other stream or body of water in the city.
(Ord. 22-0323, 3-28-2022)
5-3-2: PLACING YARD AND TREE WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or company to deposit or place any yard
waste or tree waste of any nature whatsoever in or upon any public or private
property in the city or upon or into any river, lake, pond, ditch, creek, storm
sewer, or any other stream or body of water in the city. (Ord. 22-0323, 3-28-
2022)
5-3-3: REMOVING YARD AND TREE WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or company to leave any cut yard waste or
cut tree waste of any nature whatsoever in or upon any public or private
property in the city or upon or into any river, lake, pond, ditch, creek, storm
sewer, or any other stream or body of water in the city. (Ord. 22-0323, 3-28-
2022)
5-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF YARD AND TREE WASTE:
It shall be the responsibility of the person or company trimming weeds, brush,
trees, or any other vegetation to properly dispose of the waste material in
accordance with all local, state, and federal regulations. (Ord. 22-0323, 3-28-
2022)
5-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter or any part hereof shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 22-0323, 3-28-2022)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Nuisance Declared; Weeds Prohibited
5-4-2: Height Restrictions
5-4-3: Abatement Procedures
5-4-4: Abatement Costs A Lien
5-4-5: Foreclosure Of Lien; Sale Of Property
5-4-6: Enforcement And Penalty
5-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED; WEEDS PROHIBITED:
Any weed such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of
like kind found growing on any lot or tract of land in the city are hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such weeds to
grow or remain in such place. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-20-2000)
5-4-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit weeds, grass or plants other than
trees, bushes, flowers or ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
twelve inches (12") anywhere in the city, and any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-
20-2000)
5-4-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It shall be the duty of the city manager or designated
agent to serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any
premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the
provisions of this chapter and to demand an abatement of the nuisance within
seventy two (72) hours.
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs: If any person so served does not abate the
nuisance within seventy two (72) hours, the city may proceed to abate such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of abatement (such as labor,
equipment and other), and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner
or occupant. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-20-2000)
5-4-4: ABATEMENT COSTS A LIEN:
Charges for such weed or grass removal shall be a lien on the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after it
has been rendered, the city clerk may file in the office of the county recorder
of deeds a statement of lien. This statement shall contain a legal description
of the premises and the expenses, and costs incurred, the date the weeds were
cut and the notice that the city claims a lien for this amount, plus interest.
Such notice of lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if this
address is known; provided, however, that failure of the clerk to record such
lien claim or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such
notice shall not affect the right of the city to foreclose the lien for such
charges. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-20-2000)
5-4-5: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN; SALE OF PROPERTY:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed or grass cutting charges may be
foreclosed in equity in the name of the city, and such property shall be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
pay the charges after deducting costs as in the case of foreclosure of
statutory liens. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-20-2000)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement: The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 00-1128, 11-20-2000)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Possession, Sale And Use Of Fireworks
5-5-3: Violations; Searches And Seizures
5-5-4: Exemption
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CONSUMER DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who distributes, offers for sale, sells, or
exchanges for consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois to another
distributor or directly to any retailer or person for resale.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. consumer products
safety commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507 and classified as
fireworks UN0336 and UN0337 by the United States department of transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. Consumer fireworks shall not include snake or glowworm
pellets; smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby
traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar
alarms"; sparklers, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol, paper or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20)
grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all
times.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY OR CONSUMER DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition or
deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
CONSUMER OPERATOR: An adult individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has completed
the training required by state law.
CONSUMER RETAILER: Any person who offers for sale, sells or exchanges for
consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois directly to any person with a
consumer display permit.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further defined in
the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act.
FIREWORKS: Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101.
FLAME EFFECT: The detonation, ignition or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual or audible
effect before the public, invitees or licensees regardless of whether admission
is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association 160
guidelines, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic operator licensing
act.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act.
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture, or commercial entity.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of a
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act.
SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS 1 : Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical,
or other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
compositions and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are
not labeled as such or identified as intended for indoor use. Special effects
fireworks are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. (Ord. 10-0506, 5-3-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35/1.
5-5-2: POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS 1 :
   A.   Possession Of Fireworks: Except as hereinafter provided it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, copartnership, or corporation to knowingly
possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any
display fireworks, flame effects, or consumer fireworks, provided that the
mayor and city council shall have power to adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for pyrotechnic or consumer displays.
   B.   Pyrotechnic Displays 2 :
      1.   Each pyrotechnic display shall be conducted by a licensed lead
pyrotechnic operator. Applications for a pyrotechnic display permit shall be
made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the
pyrotechnic display, unless agreed to otherwise by the local jurisdiction
issuing the permit and the fire chief of the jurisdiction in which the display
will occur. After a permit has been granted, sales, possession, use, and
distribution of display fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that
purpose only. No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
      2.   Pyrotechnic display permits may be granted hereunder to any adult
individual applying therefor. No permit shall be required under the provisions
of 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq., for supervised public displays
by state or county fair associations.
      3.   The applicant seeking the pyrotechnic display permit must provide
proof of liability insurance in a sum not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) to the local governmental entity issuing the permit.
      4.   A permit shall be issued only after the chief of the fire department
providing fire protection coverage to the area of display, or his or her
designee, has inspected the site and determined that the display can be
performed in full compliance with the rules adopted by the state fire marshal
and that the display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuer of a permit from
adopting more stringent rules.
      5.   All indoor pyrotechnic displays shall be conducted in buildings
protected by automatic sprinkler systems and meeting the requirements of rules
adopted by the state fire marshal pursuant to 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes
30/1 et seq.
      6.   Permits shall be signed by the chief of the fire department
providing fire protection to the area of display, or his or her designee, and
must identify the lead pyrotechnic operator.
   C.   Consumer Displays 3 :
      1.   Each consumer display shall be handled by a competent individual who
has received training from a consumer fireworks training class approved by the
office of the state fire marshal. Applications for consumer display permits
shall be made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of
the display, unless agreed to otherwise by the local jurisdiction issuing the
permit and the fire chief of the jurisdiction in which the display will occur.
After a permit has been granted, sales, possession, use, and distribution of
consumer fireworks for display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted hereunder shall be transferable.
      2.   Permits may be granted hereunder to any adult individual applying
for a permit who provides proof that he or she has received the requisite
training. The local jurisdiction issuing the permit is authorized to conduct a
criminal background check of the applicant as a condition of issuing a permit.
      3.   A permit shall be issued only after inspection of the display site
by the fire chief providing fire protection coverage to the area of display, or
his or her designee, to determine that the display is in full compliance with
the rules adopted by the state fire marshal. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the issuer of a permit from adopting more stringent rules.
   D.   Consumer Distributors And Retailers 4 : No person may act as a consumer
distributor or retailer or advertise or use any title implying that the person
is a consumer distributor or retailer unless registered with the office of the
state fire marshal. No consumer fireworks may be distributed, sold,
transferred, or provided free of charge to an individual who has not been
issued a permit in accordance with subsection C of this section or has not
registered with the office of the state fire marshal in accordance with this
section. No person may sell to a single individual a quantity of consumer
fireworks exceeding four hundred ninety nine (499) pounds without prior
approval by the office of the state fire marshal. The state fire marshal, in
the name of the people, through the attorney general, the state's attorney of
any county, any resident of the state, or any legal entity within the state may
apply for injunctive relief in any court to enjoin any person who has not
registered from distributing or selling consumer fireworks. Upon filing a
verified petition in court, the court, if satisfied by affidavit, or otherwise,
that the person is or has been distributing in violation of 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq., may enter a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction, without bond, enjoining the defendant from further
activity. A copy of the verified complaint shall be served upon the defendant
and the proceedings are to be conducted as in other civil cases. The court may
enter a judgment permanently enjoining a defendant from further unregistered
activity if it is established that the defendant has been or is distributing in
violation of 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq. In case of violation
of any injunctive order or judgment entered under this section, the court may
summarily try and punish the offender for contempt of court. Injunctive
proceedings are in addition to all penalties and other remedies in 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq. (Ord. 10-0506, 5-3-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4, power of city to regulate fireworks.
2 1. 425 ILCS 35/2.1.
3 2. 425 ILCS 35/2.2.
4 1. 425 ILCS 35/2.3.
5-5-3: VIOLATIONS; SEARCHES AND SEIZURES 1 :
Whenever any officer or employee of the office of the state fire marshal or the
department of state police, a sheriff, a deputy sheriff, or the mayor or any
member of the city council has reason to believe that any violation of this
chapter has occurred within the city and that the person so violating this
chapter has in his possession fireworks or combustibles, the mayor or the
council member may file a complaint in writing, verified by affidavit, with any
circuit court within whose jurisdiction the premises to be searched are
situated, stating the facts upon which such belief is founded, the premises to
be searched, and the property to be seized, and procure a search warrant and
execute the same. Upon the execution of such search warrant, the person
executing the same shall make due return thereof to the court issuing the same,
together with an inventory of the property taken thereunder. The court shall
thereupon issue process against the owner of such property if he be known,
otherwise against the party in whose possession the property so taken was
found, if known. In case of inability to serve such process upon the owner or
the person in possession of the property at the time of its seizure, as
hereinbefore provided, notice of the proceedings before the court shall be
given as required by the statutes of the state governing cases of attachment.
Upon the return of the process duly served or upon the posting or publishing of
notice made, as hereinabove provided, the court or jury, if a jury shall be
demanded, shall proceed to determine whether or not such property so seized was
held or possessed in violation of this chapter. In case of a finding that the
fireworks or combustibles seized were possessed in violation of this chapter,
judgment shall be entered confiscating and forfeiting the property and ordering
its destruction. (Ord. 10-0506, 5-3-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35/4.
5-5-4: EXEMPTION 1 :
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to the transportation of
any article or thing shipped in conformity with the regulations prescribed by
the interstate commerce commission, nor as applying to the military or naval
forces of the United States, nor to the duly authorized militia of the state,
nor to the use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads,
steamboats, trucks, or aircraft. (Ord. 10-0506, 5-3-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. 425 ILCS 30/23.
CHAPTER 6
HUNTING WITH ARCHERY
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Hunting Allowed
5-6-4: Archery Practice Allowed
5-6-5: Violation
5-6-1:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to allow for hunters, licensed pursuant to
applicable Illinois Statutes and Regulatory Rules ("State Laws") to hunt using
the method of Archery, as defined infra, on parcels of land that are twenty
(20) acres or larger and within the corporate limits of the City of East
Dubuque, Jo Daviess County, Illinois ("City"). Further, it is also the purpose
of this Chapter to also allow the practice of archery, target shooting, and the
like with a bow and arrow or crossbow, as defined infra, on parcels of land
that are twenty (20) acres or larger and within the corporate limits of the
City. (Ord. 25-0511, 5-5-2025)
5-6-2:   DEFINITIONS.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless the context of their usage
clearly indicates a different meaning. All other terms defined elsewhere in
this code shall be as defined therein.
ARCHERY HUNTING: The act of using one of the following to take, or attempt to
take, a wild animal during that season or time(s) of the year as proscribed by
State Laws and using:
   A.   Longbows, recurve bows or compound bows with minimum pull of thirty
pounds (30 lbs.) at some point within a twenty-eight-inch (28") draw. Minimum
arrow length is twenty inches (20").
   B.   Crossbows that meet all of the following specifications:
      1.   Use a bowstring to propel the bolt or arrow and have a minimum peak
draw weight of one hundred and twenty-five pounds (125 lbs.);
      2.   Have a minimum length (from butt of stock to front of limbs) of
twenty-four inches (24");
      3.   Have a working safety; and
      4.   Be used with fletched bolts or arrows of not less than fourteen
inches (14") in length (not including point).
PRACTICE OF ARCHERY/ ARCHERY PRACTICE: The practice of archery, archery
practice, target shooting, and the like with a bow and arrow or crossbow, as
defined supra, on parcels of land that are twenty (20) acres or larger and
within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 25-0511, 5-5-2025)
5-6-3:   HUNTING ALLOWED:
Notwithstanding the provisions of City Code Title 7, Chapter 5, Section 2 and
City Code Title 7, Chapter 6, Section 1, Archery Hunting, using the equipment
as described above and in compliance with Illinois Law, shall be allowed on
land parcels exceeding twenty (20) acres or more and within the corporate
limits of the City. Notwithstanding, no Archery Hunting shall be allowed within
one hundred (100) yards from any building, regardless of whether occupied.
(Ord. 25-0511, 5-5-2025)
5-6-4:   ARCHERY PRACTICE ALLOWED:
Notwithstanding the provisions of City Code Title 7, Chapter 5, Section 2 and
City Code Title 7, Chapter 6, Section 1, the Practice of Archery, using the
equipment as described above and in compliance with Illinois Law, shall be
allowed on land parcels exceeding twenty (20) acres or more and within the
corporate limits of the City. Notwithstanding, no Archery Hunting shall be
allowed within one hundred (100) yards from any building, regardless of whether
occupied. (Ord. 25-0511, 5-5-2025)
5-6-5:   VIOLATION:
Any violation of the above provisions shall be considered an offense as
described by City Code Title 7, Chapter 5, Section 2, and/or City Code Title 7,
Chapter 6, Section 1. Further, it is unlawful to carry any firearm or sidearm
while hunting deer with a bow and arrow unless in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act. (Ord. 25-0511, 5-5-2025)
TITLE 6
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: General Duties Of Police Department Members
6-1-2: Reports Required To Chief Of Police
6-1-3: Authority To Arrest Violators; Procedure
6-1-4: Authority To Execute Warrants, Other Process
6-1-5: Right Of Entry
6-1-6: Absence From Duty Without Leave
6-1-7: Members Prohibited From Receiving Gifts
6-1-8: Seizure Of Property
6-1-9: Badge Required; Damaging City Property
6-1-10: Return Of City Property
6-1-11: Part Time Officers
6-1-1: GENERAL DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   Chief Of Police: The chief of police shall supervise all members of the
department, assign duties, prescribe regulations and be responsible for all
property connected with said department. The chief of police shall hold their
respective office for the same term as now provided by law for the mayor and
city clerk.
   B.   Police Officers: The members of the police department shall devote
their whole time and attention to the discharge of their duties according to
the ordinances of the city, laws of the state, and the rules and regulations
which the chief of police may prescribe from time to time. It shall be the duty
of each member of the police department to preserve order, peace and quiet and
to enforce the laws and ordinances throughout the city. (Ord. 11-0706, 7-5-
2011)
6-1-2: REPORTS REQUIRED TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
The members of the police department shall report to the chief of police all
sidewalks and roadways that are in a dangerous condition, all cases of unlawful
obstruction or excavation in streets, alleys or other public grounds, all cases
of unsanitary conditions, all cases of contagious diseases, all thefts and
robberies and other infractions of the laws and ordinances of the city or
state, and all accidents of a serious nature; and the chief of police shall
record such reports in a record to be provided for that purpose. (Ord. 11-0706,
7-5-2011)
6-1-3: AUTHORITY TO ARREST VIOLATORS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Generally: Said police officers shall immediately stop the progress of
any and all such violations, and they shall have the power to arrest all
persons in the city, on view, found in violation of any law or ordinance of the
city or state, or aiding or abetting any such violation, and shall take all
such persons so arrested before the court having jurisdiction, and prefer
charges or make complaint against such persons so arrested and prosecute same.
   B.   Confinement Of Persons Arrested: In all cases where it becomes
necessary to confine any person under arrest, if such person is violent or if
for any other reason the officer having such person in charge shall be
apprehensive of any attempt to escape, or if he shall suspect that the person
has concealed on or about his person any deadly weapon, and if such weapon
shall be found or any instrument that will aid such person to escape from such
confinement, the officer having such person in charge shall remove the same and
deliver the same to the chief of police, who shall safely keep the same. When
such person shall be released from arrest or confinement, the chief of police
shall return such article to the person from whom the same may have been taken,
if the same shall not have been otherwise lawfully disposed of. (Ord. 11-0706,
7-5-2011)
6-1-4: AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE WARRANTS, OTHER PROCESS:
All police officers shall have power and authority within said city to serve
and execute all warrants, writs and other process for the apprehension and
commitment of persons charged with an offense or crime, or misdemeanor, or held
for examination or trial for the violation of any law or ordinance of the city.
They shall also have power and authority within said city to serve and execute
any and all writs, warrants, summons or other process or to assist in the same.
Such police officers shall have and possess all the powers and authority
conferred on constables at common law and by the statutes of the state. (Ord.
11-0706, 7-5-2011)
6-1-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Police officers of the city shall have power and authority, in a peaceable and
quiet manner, to enter any house, store, shop or other building in the city in
which any person may be reasonably expected to be for unlawful purposes
providing officer is acting within such law; and if any person shall be found
therein guilty of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any ordinance for the
preservation of peace and good order of the city, or who may reasonably be
suspected thereof, or who shall be aiding or abetting such person or persons so
doing, they shall apprehend and keep in custody such person or persons as in
cases of other arrests. (Ord. 11-0706, 7-5-2011)
6-1-6: ABSENCE FROM DUTY WITHOUT LEAVE:
Any unexplained absence from duty, without leave, by any member of the police
department for one day shall be deemed and held to be a resignation by such
member, and accepted as such. (Ord. 11-0706, 7-5-2011)
6-1-7: MEMBERS PROHIBITED FROM RECEIVING GIFTS:
No member of the police department shall, for his own benefit, share in any
present, gift or emolument for police services without the consent of the chief
of police and city manager. (Ord. 11-0706, 7-5-2011)
6-1-8: SEIZURE OF PROPERTY:
It shall be the duty of all police officers to report to the chief of police at
such times and places as he may require, at all times to obey the orders and
instructions of said chief, and also to deliver to him all property seized or
found by them immediately after the same shall come into their possession which
property, with the date of delivery and a description of same, and name of the
officer shall be kept for the purpose of said chief of police. (Ord. 11-0706,
7-5-2011)
6-1-9: BADGE REQUIRED; DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY:
Every police officer shall wear a suitable badge to be furnished by the city,
and any officer who shall destroy the same or any other article issued to him
by the city shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it. (Ord. 11-0706,
7-5-2011)
6-1-10: RETURN OF CITY PROPERTY:
Whenever any police officer shall leave, resign, be suspended or discharged, he
shall immediately deliver to the chief of police his badge and all other
property of the city issued to him and any pay due or to become due to said
officers shall be withheld until said property has been returned. (Ord. 11-
0706, 7-5-2011)
6-1-11: PART TIME OFFICERS:
   A.   Employment: The city of East Dubuque may employ part time police
officers from time to time as we deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
policy manual of the East Dubuque police department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted to not more
than six hundred (600) hours. Part time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or a GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and the policy manual
issued by the police department. (Ord. 12-0505, 5-7-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
TITLE 7
OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
7-1-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code 1 , as amended, are hereby adopted by
the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this city code if proceeded hereunder. (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Obstructing Justice Defined
7-2-2: Aid In Escape
7-2-3: Penalty
7-2-1: OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE DEFINED:
A person obstructs justice when, with intent to prevent the apprehension or
obstruct the prosecution or defense of any person, he knowingly commits any of
the following acts:
   A.   Destroys, alters, conceals or disguises physical evidence, plants false
evidence, furnishes false information; or
   B.   Induces a witness having knowledge material to the subject at issue to
leave the state or conceal himself; or
   C.   Possessing knowledge material to the subject at issue, he leaves the
state or conceals himself. (Ord., 5-5-1964)
7-2-2: AID IN ESCAPE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly aid a person in the lawful
custody of a peace officer in escaping from custody. (Ord., 1-18-1988; amd.
2001 Code)
7-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Prostitution; Disorderly Houses
7-3-2: Gambling And Fraud
7-3-3: Loitering
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PROSTITUTION; DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Prostitution; Disorderly Houses And Patronizing Same:
      1.   Violations: Any person who shall keep or maintain, or assist in
keeping or maintaining a house of ill fame or assignation or place for the
practice of prostitution or lewdness, or who shall patronize or be an inmate of
the same; or any owner, agent or lessee who shall let any house, room or
premises for any such purposes or who shall keep a common, ill governed and
disorderly house, to the encouragement of idleness, gaming, drinking,
fornication or other misbehavior, or who shall patronize, frequent or loiter
around the same, or shall keep or assist in keeping any boat or other
watercraft for the purpose of prostitution upon any stream of water shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Nuisance Declared: Every such place of ill fame or prostitution is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and each and every day of its continuation
shall be deemed a separate offense under this section.
   B.   Soliciting For Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any person to
solicit on any street, alley or public place in the city for the purpose of
inducing any person to engage in prostitution or any unlawful sexual
intercourse of any kind, or to engage in any unlawful sexual act of any kind.
(Ord., 8-20-1984; amd. 2001 Code)
7-3-2: GAMBLING AND FRAUD:
   A.   Gambling, Gambling Houses, Lotteries, Fraud: It shall be unlawful for
any person to gamble; to operate, conduct or manage a gambling house or permit
a gambling house to be operated, conducted or managed; to operate, conduct or
manage a lottery or to permit a lottery to be operated, conducted or managed;
and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or utilize any fraudulent
devices or practices for the purpose of obtaining money or property.
   B.   Gambling Equipment: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any
gambling equipment.
   C.   Definitions: "Gambling", "gambling houses" and "lotteries", as used in
this section, shall mean the same as used in the statutes of the state and the
court decisions interpreting them as well as the usual and customary meanings
attached to these words and phrases. (Ord., 12-22-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
7-3-3: LOITERING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    LOITERING: Means and includes the following activities: remaining idle in
essentially one location and spending time idly in connection therewith; to
linger; to stay; to saunter; to delay; to stand around; and shall also include
the colloquial expression "hanging around"; moving slowly about; sleeping in
motor vehicles or trailers located on public property; sleeping on streets or
sidewalks, alleys, public ways, parks, or other public property.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Means and includes, but is not limited to, the following: all
places commonly known as being distinctively public, such as: public streets,
public restrooms, sidewalks, parks, municipal airports, alleys, and buildings;
all places privately owned but open to the public generally, such as: shopping
centers, transportation terminals, retail stores, movie theaters, office
buildings, and restaurants.
   SURROUNDING AREA: That area easily and immediately accessible to the person
under observation.
   B.   Determination Of Probable Cause For Alarm Or Concern:
      1.   Without limitation, the following activities and circumstances may
be considered in determining probable cause for alarm or concern:
         a.   The flight of a person upon the appearance of a police officer.
         b.   Attempted concealment by a person upon the appearance of a police
officer.
         c.   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows, or other
means of access to buildings, houses, or vehicles.
         d.   Continuous presence by a person in close proximity to any
building, house, vehicle, or any other property or to any other person, at any
time when the activity of such person manifests possible unlawful activity,
such continuous presence being for an unreasonable period of time under the
circumstances then existing.
         e.   The sleeping or living by a person in any motor vehicle or
trailer, located on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or
public alley or way, or any other public place or building, park, or other
public property.
         f.   The sleeping of any person on any public street, public highway,
public sidewalk, or public alley or way, or any other public place or building,
park, or other public property.
      2.   The only exceptions to subsections B1e and B1f of this section will
be those locations in any city park or other public facility approved by the
public officials having authority to regulate the use of said public
facilities.
   C.   Loitering Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone and/or
in consort with others, in a public place, when such loitering is accompanied
by activity or is under circumstances that afford probable cause for alarm or
concern for the safety and well-being of persons, or for the security of
property in the surrounding area.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone and/or
in consort with others, in a public place in such a manner so as to obstruct
any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or public alley or way, or
any other public place or building by hindering or impeding, or tending to
hinder or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or
pedestrians.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone and/or
in consort with others, in a public place in such a manner so as to commit in
or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, alley or public way
or any other public place or building, any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property, or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon, or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, alley, or public way, or
any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress, or regress therein, thereof, and thereto, and no
person shall, by his presence or by other means, either alone or in consort
with others, interfere with or interrupt the conduct of business in the offices
located in such buildings.
   D.   Police Order To Disperse: When any person causes or commits any of the
conditions enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, a police officer or any
law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing
such conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person who refuses or fails to
so move on or disperse shall be guilty of a violation of this section. (Ord.,
8-20-1984; amd. 2001 Code)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any such violation shall constitute a separate offense on
each successive day continued. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Disorderly Conduct
7-5-2: Disturbing The Peace
7-5-3: Public Intoxication
7-5-4: Fighting
7-5-5: Penalty
7-5-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person to
conduct himself in a disorderly manner or fashion in the city.
   B.   Incidents Deemed Disorderly Conduct: A person commits disorderly
conduct when he/she knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm, disturb, or
annoy another person and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that
such fire exists; or
      3.   Transmits in any manner to another person a false alarm to the
effect that a bomb or an explosive of any nature is concealed in such place
that its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb
or explosive is concealed in any such place; or
      4.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds
for believing that such offense has been committed; or
      5.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it. (Ord., 2-5-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
7-5-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of any
person, neighborhood, or family by loud or unusual noises, or by tumultuous or
offensive carriage, threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight,
or fighting, or, in a threatening manner, to display any pistol, knife,
slingshot, brass, steel, or iron knuckles, or other deadly weapon 1 . (Ord., 2-
5-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title for additional weapons regulations.
7-5-3: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is in a state of intoxication
or drunkenness to be or appear under any circumstances in any street or public
place or in any place or premises open to public view within the city. It shall
be unlawful for any such person to be or appear in any private house or place
to the annoyance of any person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic beverages or
alcoholic liquors in any street, sidewalk, alley, or other unlicensed public
place or in or upon any vehicle commonly used for the transportation of
passengers or in or upon any depot, platform, or waiting room of any public
carrier. (Ord. 03-1104, 11-3-2003)
7-5-4: FIGHTING:
Fighting is considered a prohibited act and that:
   A.   The offense of fighting has been committed when a person causes or
creates a risk of unreasonable public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm either
directly or indirectly to other persons including law enforcement personnel by:
      1.   Causing, invoking, or engaging in any fight, brawl, or other violent
or threatening behavior; or
      2.   Committing any act which tends to create or incite, or in fact
creates or incites, either a violent response and/or an immediate breach of the
peace. Such conduct includes, without limitation:
         a.   Personally abusive epithets, words or language that a reasonable
person would find offensive, disgusting or insulting, and/or which epithets,
words or language are likely to provoke a reaction of fear, anger or
apprehension when addressed to a person of ordinary sensibilities; or
      3.   Disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority; or
      4.   Obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic without lawful
authority; or
      5.   Without lawful authority threatens to cause bodily injury
immediately or in the future to another person or persons.
   B.   Two (2) or more persons who unlawfully use or threaten to use force, or
participate in any way in the use of such force, against any person including
each other or against property have committed the offense of fighting. (Ord.
13-0509, 5-6-2013)
7-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 03-1104, 11-3-2003; Ord. 13-0509, 5-6-2013)
CHAPTER 6
WEAPONS 1
SECTION:
7-6-1: Discharge Of Weapons
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-5-2 of this title.
7-6-1: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful to use, discharge or fire
any firearm within the city limits, including rifles, shotguns, pistols,
revolvers or any other type of firearm.
   B.   Discharge Of Other Weapons: It shall be unlawful to use, discharge or
fire any BB gun, pellet gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot or any other
similar weapon within the city limits.
   C.   Penalty: Each person violating this section shall be subject to subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 1-3-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MINORS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Curfew
7-7-2: Employment Of Minors
7-7-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions:
      1.   Age: Minor means a person under eighteen (18) years of age (Admin.
Code title 11, chapter 1, part 100.10).
      2.   Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person less than eighteen
(18) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building,
place, street or highway unless engaged in a business or occupations which the
laws of the State authorize a person less than eighteen (18) years of age to
perform:
         a.   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday and Sunday; and
         b.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day. (Ord. 17-1013, 10-
16-2017)
   B.   Responsibility For Minor: It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian
or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to
violate subsection A of this section.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of any provision
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 8-16-1976; amd. 2001 Code)
7-7-2: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
In the sale, distribution or delivery of alcoholic liquors, no retail alcoholic
liquor licensee may employ, with or without compensation, in any way directly
or indirectly, use the services of a minor. (Administrative Code: title 11,
chapter 1, part 100, section 100.20.) (Ord. 17-1013, 10-16-2017)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL EVENTS
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 9
CHILD SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Location Restrictions
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter the city of East Dubuque hereby incorporates, by reference, the
definitions from 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9.3(c) and 5/11-9.4(d).
(Ord. 05-1005, 10-3-2005)
7-9-2: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly reside within two
thousand feet (2,000') of a school building or the real property comprising any
school that persons under the age of eighteen (18) attend.
   B.   Nothing in this section prohibits a child sex offender from residing
within two thousand feet (2,000') of a school building or the real property
comprising any school that persons under eighteen (18) attend if the property
is owned by the child sex offender and was purchased before the effective date
hereof.
   C.   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly reside within two
thousand feet (2,000') of a playground or a facility providing programs or
services exclusively directed toward persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits a child sex offender from residing
within two thousand feet (2,000') of a playground or a facility providing
programs or services exclusively directed toward persons under eighteen (18)
years of age if the property is owned by the child sex offender and was
purchased before the effective date of this amendatory act of the 91st general
assembly. (Ord. 05-1005, 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL BOND FEE
SECTION:
7-10-1: Bail Processing Fee
7-10-1: BAIL PROCESSING FEE:
Any person arrested for violating a bailable municipal ordinance, state statute
violation of any felony or misdemeanor charge, or state traffic violation with
a misdemeanor penalty, shall pay a twenty dollar ($20.00) fee for bail
processing. This fee shall be in addition to the required bail and shall be
paid before the arrestee is released on bail. (Ord. 12-1206, 12-3-2012)
TITLE 8
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Cruelty To Animals
8-1-3: Death Of Rabies Suspects; Procedure
8-1-4: Enforcement And Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CAT: Both male and female animals in the family Felis catus whether neutered or
not.
DOG: Both male and female animals of the canine species whether neutered or
not.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
PERSON: Any individual, association of individuals, or any corporation who
owns, keeps or harbors an animal.
PIT BULL: An American pit bull terrier, Staffordshire pit bull terrier, English
pit bull terrier and any mixed breed canine containing twenty five percent
(25%) or more of the pit bull strain.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which shall at any time have bitten or
injured by biting any human being. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-1-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way, and any person
who inhumanely beats, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of this section. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-1-3: DEATH OF RABIES SUSPECTS; PROCEDURE:
When an animal has been diagnosed as being rabid, or suspected by a licensed
veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under observation, the county
animal warden or city official shall immediately send the head of such animal
to the state department of public health for pathological examination, and
shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of human contacts and
the diagnosis made of the suspected animal. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-1-4: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The Jo Daviess County animal control warden and
any police officer from the East Dubuque police department are in charged with
the duty of enforcing this title.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this title shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each and every offense. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Running At Large Prohibited
8-2-2: Rabies Inoculation Required
8-2-3: Dangerous Or Vicious Dogs
8-2-4: Dogs Disturbing The Peace
8-2-5: Ownership Of Certain Animals
8-2-6: Presence In Cemetery Prohibited
8-2-7: Animal Pound
8-2-8: Presence In City Playgrounds
8-2-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat shall cause or permit such
animal to run at large on any road, street, alley or other public place or
private property of another within the city. All dogs or cats within the city
shall be kept confined by a chain or leash in such a manner as to prevent such
animal from biting any person or animal, or if not tied, kept in a fenced area.
(Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-2-2: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED:
Every owner or keeper of any dog or cat within the limits of the city shall
cause such animal to be examined annually by a registered veterinarian and
inoculated by such veterinarian in accordance with any state law, county or
city ordinance. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-2-3: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS:
No person shall own, keep or harbor a dangerous or vicious dog within the city,
unless such person shall keep such dog safely and securely confined so as to
protect from injury any person or child who shall lawfully come upon the
premises in the vicinity where such dog may be located. Adequate warning by
signs or otherwise shall be given to all persons lawfully coming upon the
premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous dog, which may be
confined as aforesaid. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-2-4: DOGS DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge or control of any dog,
or for any person who has a dog to allow such dog, by barking, howling, crying
or other distressing or loud or unusual noise, to disturb the peace or quiet of
any place, neighborhood or family in the city. The disturbing of the peace or
quiet of any such place, neighborhood, family or person in the city by any such
dog is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to suffer or permit any such nuisance to exist. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-
2000)
8-2-5: OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
No person shall purposely or knowingly feed, bait, or in any manner provide
access to food, water, or shelter to any wild animal within the corporate
limits of the city of East Dubuque, on city owned public property.
A wild animal shall include any animal that is not privately owned or that is
not customarily domesticated in this state, including, but not limited to,
deer, raccoons, feral cats, opossums, skunks, beavers, cougars, wolves,
coyotes, foxes and bears. (Ord. 15-0617, 6-15-2015)
8-2-6: PRESENCE IN CEMETERY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to allow any dog or cat within the
premises of the East Dubuque Cemetery. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-2-7: ANIMAL POUND:
The Jo Daviess County animal control department shall provide a dog or cat
pound for the impoundment of all dogs or cats that are captured by the person
or persons charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-
18-2000)
8-2-8: PRESENCE IN CITY PLAYGROUNDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to allow any dog or cat within the
premises of any city playground. (Ord. 05-0507, 5-2-2005)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Keeping Of Certain Animals Restricted
8-3-2: Nondomesticated Animals
8-3-3: Dangerous Animals
8-3-4: Noisy Animals
8-3-5: Animal Defecating On Property
8-3-1: KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain horses, ponies, mules, cattle, sheep,
goats, fowl and poultry (roosters) or swine within the city limits on property
less than two (2) acres in size. Except that the property owner may have a
total of three (3) (ducks, or rabbits) and five (5) (chickens) in a
residentially zoned district. Any person who shall violate this section shall
be held as maintaining a nuisance. In regard to aforementioned animals within
the city limits as of September 18, 2000, and otherwise prohibited under this
section, said animals may be retained until September 19, 2005, under such
terms and conditions as are promulgated by the city relating to sanitation,
odor and noise. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000; amd. Ord. 15-0617, 6-15-2015; Ord.
23-0618, 6-19-2023)
8-3-2: NONDOMESTICATED ANIMALS:
   A.   Nondomesticated Animal Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   No person shall confine in any cage, pen or other enclosure, either
in or outside a dwelling or other building, any live animal or live reptile of
any species which is of the class of Ferae naturae or nondomesticated. Pet
stores within the city are exempt from this subsection A1, except for the
keeping of certain animals or reptiles as stated in subsection A2 of this
section.
      2.   No person, business association or corporation may keep any animals
that would be properly maintained in a zoological park, circus, scientific or
educational institution, research laboratory, veterinary hospital or animal
refuge.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The keeping of any such animal or reptile shall be
deemed a nuisance and shall be subject to summary abatement by any police
officer or animal control warden.
   C.   Permit For Exhibitions And Parades: Exhibitions or parades of animals
which are Ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted, kept or
harbored within the city only after securing a permit from the city council.
   D.   Domestication No Defense: It is no defense to a violation of this
section that the keeper of any animal or poisonous reptile which is prohibited
by subsection A2 of this section has attempted to domesticate such animal or
poisonous reptile. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-3-3: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to
run at large within the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals, which are
Ferae naturae in the eyes of the law, may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the city council. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-3-4: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by
loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
8-3-5: ANIMAL DEFECATING ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Permission Required: No person, being the owner of or having charge of
any animal, shall permit it to defecate upon any public property, or upon any
private property without permission of the property owner.
   B.   Duty To Remove: Any person, being the owner or having charge of any
animal not confined to that person's property, shall immediately remove any
animal feces deposited on public or private property in violation of subsection
A of this section. (Ord. 00-0915, 9-18-2000)
TITLE 9
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 1
LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Declaration
9-1-3: Curfew Authorized
9-1-4: Orders Authorized
9-1-5: Duration
9-1-6: Notice
9-1-7: Violations
9-1-8: Effect On Other Ordinances
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning;
 
           (1) A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
           force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by
           immediate power to execute by three or more persons acting together
           without authority of law; or (2) Any natural disaster, epidemic, or
           manmade calamity, including outbreak of disease, flood,
EMERGENCY: conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, or eminent
           threat of any of those events within the corporate limits of the
           city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or
           the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
           measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
           welfare.
           A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
           standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
CURFEW:    property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city
           except officials of any governmental unit and persons officially
           designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 20-
           0323, 3-16-2020)
 
9-1-2: DECLARATION:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
9-1-1 of this chapter exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence
of a Local State of Emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor,
under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing
the nature of the emergency and declaring that a Local State of Emergency
exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this chapter. This
declaration must be filed with the municipal clerk as soon as practicable after
issuance. (Ord. 20-0323, 3-16-2020)
9-1-3: CURFEW AUTHORIZED:
After proclamation of a Local State of Emergency by the Mayor, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to
the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare. (Ord. 20-0323, 3-16-2020)
9-1-4: ORDERS AUTHORIZED:
After the proclamation of a Local State of Emergency, the Mayor may also, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address this issues caused
threatened by the emergency, make take any or all of the following actions by
executive order during the state of emergency:
   A.   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
   B.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality; and
   C.   In the event the Local State of Emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the City during the existence of the
Local State of Emergency.
   D.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   E.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   F.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   G.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever. (Ord. 20-0323,
3-16-2020)
9-1-5: DURATION:
The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
thirty (30) days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special
meeting of the city council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by
a proclamation of the Mayor, or, his or her interim emergency successor,
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or his or her
interim emergency successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence
of an emergency at the end of each thirty (30)-day period during the time said
emergency exists. (Ord. 20-0323, 3-16-2020)
9-1-6: NOTICE:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the municipal clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the City, and shall cause at least four
(4) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any
curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the city hall, the
police station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew. (Ord. 20-0323,
3-16-2020)
9-1-7: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders issued
pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the City and shall be
punished as provided by Title 7, Chapter 5 of the City code. (Ord. 20-0323, 3-
16-2020)
9-1-8: EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES:
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code, giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the City. (Ord. 20-0323, 3-16-2020)
TITLE 10
TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Interfering With Traffic Prohibited
10-1-4: Enforcement And Penalties
10-1-5: Engine Brakes
10-1-6: Vehicle Towing Regulations
10-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code 1 , as amended, are hereby adopted by the
city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
title, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this title if proceeded hereunder. (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise provided in this section, words and terms used in this title
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/1-101 et seq.
ALLEY: A narrow thoroughfare upon which abuts generally the rear of premises or
upon which service entrances of buildings abut, and which is not generally used
as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, or which is not used for
general traffic circulation or which is not in excess of thirty feet (30') in
width at its intersection with a street. (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
10-1-3: INTERFERING WITH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
   A.   Vehicles: No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any
street in such a manner so as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the
traffic thereon. (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Pedestrians:
      1.   Loitering In Roadways: No person shall stand or loiter in any
roadway other than in a safety zone, if such act interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic. (Ord., 9-17-1957)
      2.   Traffic Controlled By Signal Or Police Officer: At intersections
where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop and go signal, it
shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other than with
released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of
traffic. (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Standing On Sidewalk: It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand
upon any sidewalk, except as near as reasonably possible to the building or
curb line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians. (Ord., 9-17-1957)
10-1-4: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Arrests: Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this
title shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by
statute. The police officer in command at the station may, in the absence of a
proper judge, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance. Provided
that any arrested person may, at his request, have the amount of such bond set
by a proper judge as provided by statute.
   B.   Traffic Tickets: For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or
reckless driving, police officers, after making note of the license number of
the vehicle (and name of the offender where possible), may issue a traffic
violation ticket notifying the offender to appear in court at the time
designated for hearing such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the
issuance of a warrant if the offender does not appear at the time and place so
specified.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this title shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
10-1-5: ENGINE BRAKES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
to cause to be used or operated within the city, any engine brake, compression
brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or
explosive noise from such brake or device.
   B.   Exception: Only in case of emergency.
   C.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
   D.   The city shall provide notice of the prohibition created by this
section by posting clearly visible signs on all truck routes at or near the
entrances to the city, utilizing city signs off of state right of way or on
state right of way with Illinois department of transportation authority. (Ord.
06-0229, 2-20-2006)
10-1-6: VEHICLE TOWING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference: The city adopts the provisions of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 through 5/4-214 as the basic regulations
to be applied by the police department in arranging for motor vehicles
described therein to be removed from the public streets of this city.
   B.   Levy Of Administrative Fee: The person(s) responsible for payment of
the towing allowed to be assessed by any or all of the provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 through 5/4-214 shall be liable to the city
for payment of an administrative fee in the amount set forth in this section.
   C.   Fee Schedule: The administrative fee charged for all acts and
recordkeeping relating to the towing of vehicles within the city by the police
department shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per vehicle, per tow.
   D.   Impound: No towing company or tow operator shall release any vehicle
towed at the request of the East Dubuque police department to any person unless
that person shall first provide a receipt to the towing company or tow operator
demonstrating that the administrative fee described and levied in this section
shall have been paid in full.
   E.   Exceptions: This section and the fees described herein shall not apply
to vehicles which are being towed as a result of a simple traffic accident,
roadway breakdown, or other similar reason which is wholly unrelated to towing
incident to an arrest for DUI, license suspension, license revocation or other,
serious traffic or criminal offense, and for which the logging requirements set
forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 through 5/4-214 do not apply.
   F.   Violation: No person or company shall violate any provision of this
section.
   G.   Penalty: A person or company found guilty of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) and shall further be
liable for any unpaid portion of any administrative fee charged on any vehicle.
In addition to any fine or charge imposed by this section, any tow company or
tow operator found guilty of violating any provision of this section shall lose
the right to conduct tows within the city for a period of three (3) months for
a first offense, for a period of six (6) months for a second offense and
permanently for any third or subsequent offense. (Ord. 10-1015, 10-18-2010)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSES
(Rep. by Ord. 05-0305, 3-7-2005)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Parking Prohibitions And Restrictions
10-3-2: Time Limit Parking In Residential Areas
10-3-3: Parking During Snowfall
10-3-4: Parking To Unload Trucks
10-3-5: Loading Zones
10-3-6: Signs Posted
10-3-7: Impoundment Of Vehicles With Outstanding Parking Tickets
10-3-8: Recreational Vehicle Parking And Storage
10-3-9: Failure To Make Timely Payment Of Parking Tickets
10-3-10: Seasonal Street Sweeping
10-3-11: Fire Zone, Fire Lanes And The Like
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-4-6 of this title.
10-3-1: GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   B.   Parking Vehicles For Sale; Peddling Merchandise: It shall be unlawful
to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale,
or to park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise
is peddled.
   C.   All Night Parking: No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a
period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes between the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day, except physicians
on emergency calls.
   D.   Cab Stands; Bus Stands: No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall
be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand, and no vehicle
other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading
zone. (Ord., 9-17-1957)
10-3-2: TIME LIMIT PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   Parking Time Limited For Certain Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for an operator or owner of any motor vehicle
licensed by the state, except a passenger vehicle, public utility truck,
motorcycle, and truck under eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross weight, to
park such vehicle on a street, alley and/or any public right of way within a
residential area in the city for a period of longer than forty eight (48)
hours.
      2.   Further, it shall be unlawful for an operator or owner to park any
vehicle weighing in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross weight,
including vehicle and maximum load, on a street, alley and/or any public right
of way within a residential area of the city for a period of longer than forty
eight (48) hours.
   B.   Time Limited When Vehicle Idling: It shall be unlawful for an operator
or owner of any vehicle licensed by the state, except a passenger vehicle,
public utility truck, motorcycle, and truck under eight thousand (8,000)
pounds' gross weight, to leave the engine running or to idle such vehicle
within residential areas in the city for a period longer than fifteen (15)
minutes.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: The requirements of this section shall not
apply to commercial vehicles parked within the city limits for the purpose of
delivering or collecting persons, materials or merchandise or performing some
service to the residents on whose property or adjacent to whose property the
vehicle is being parked. (Ord., 2-1-1999; amd. 2001 Code)
10-3-3: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL:
   A.   Prohibited Between Certain Hours: No person shall park any motor
vehicle of any class between the hours of four o'clock (4:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on any street in the city after two inches (2") of snow has
fallen, until such time as the snow has been plowed to the side of the street.
   B.   Impoundment:
      1.   Authorized: The police department of the city is hereby authorized
to remove or authorize removal of any motor vehicle left in place, stored or
parked in violation of this section.
      2.   Removal By Towing Agency: The physical removal of unauthorized
vehicle under this section shall be done by towing agencies, which are
preapproved by the chief of police. All towing agencies used shall be insured
for any loss or damage done to any vehicles while in their custody. The city
shall not assume any responsibility for any damages or loss of property done to
or by such vehicle while in the custody of a towing agency.
      3.   Towing And Storage Fees: Any and all towing fees shall be paid in
full to such towing agency, including storage, by the owner, possessor or
operator of the vehicle so towed before the vehicle shall be released.
      4.   Collection Of Costs:
         a.   Liability Of Property Owner; Filing Of Notice Of Lien: The cost
and expense of removing the motor vehicle as provided in this section shall be
recoverable from the owner of the real estate and shall be a lien thereon,
which lien shall be superior to all prior existing liens and encumbrances,
except taxes; provided, however, that, within ninety (90) days after the
completion of removing and disposing of such vehicle, the city manager or the
city attorney shall file notice of lien for the cost and expenses incurred by
the city in the office of the county recorder of deeds. Upon payment of all
costs of removing and/or disposing of the vehicle, the lien shall be released
by the city.
         b.   Enforcement Of Lien: The lien may be enforced by a proceeding to
foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. A suit to foreclose
the lien shall be commenced by the city attorney within two (2) years after the
filing of the notice of lien.
         c.   Court Action For Personal Judgment: If the city's cost of
removing or disposing of the motor vehicle is not paid to the city within
fifteen (15) days of the filing of the notice of lien, the city attorney may
commence proceedings in the circuit court seeking a personal judgment from the
owner, occupier or person in possession of the vehicle at the time the
proceedings are commenced in the amount of such cost. The action authorized by
this subsection shall be in addition to and without waiver of any other
remedies.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
further paying in full any towing and storage cost, if any. (Ord. 02-1117, 11-
18-2002)
10-3-4: PARKING TO UNLOAD TRUCKS:
Moving vans or trucks or other vehicles handling heavy freight, merchandise, or
materials shall be permitted to back into the curb and park at an angle, with
the traffic, of not more than forty five degrees (45°), to take on or discharge
loads, but permission for such angle parking shall be first obtained from the
police. In all such cases, the vehicle shall not remain so parked longer than
the actual loading or unloading requires. (Ord., 9-17-1957)
10-3-5: LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes, and for the driver to stand any
freight carrying vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load,
unload and deliver materials, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any place
designated by the city council as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any
of the following designated places:
   A.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time. (Ord., 9-17-1957)
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on holidays and Sundays.
   C.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business. (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
10-3-6: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking
is limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord., 9-
17-1957)
10-3-7: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING PARKING TICKETS:
   A.   Towing And Impoundment Of Vehicle: Any vehicle or vehicle registration
having an outstanding or unpaid parking ticket(s) over thirty (30) days will be
subject to towing and impoundment by the city.
   B.   Costs Of Towing And Impoundment To Owners: The owner of a vehicle towed
and impounded by the city for an outstanding or unpaid parking ticket(s) shall
be responsible for the cost of towing and impoundment.
   C.   Redemption Of Vehicle: Any vehicle towed and impounded by the city for
nonpayment of an outstanding parking ticket(s) shall not be released until the
vehicle's owner or operator pays, in full, all outstanding parking tickets, any
current parking tickets, and the cost of towing and impoundment. (Ord., 12-4-
1995)
10-3-8: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    LARGE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor
home, travel trailer, truck camper, van camper, boat trailer and/or skimobile
or motorcycle trailer or trailer used primarily for recreational purposes and
not used commercially that is greater than eighteen feet (18') in overall
length of the recreational vehicle or its contents in, on or attached to the
recreational vehicle (including, but not limited to, outboard motors, hitches,
bumpers, bicycles and any other device(s) in or attached).
   SMALL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor
home, travel trailer, truck camper, van camper, boat trailer and/or skimobile
or motorcycle trailer or trailer used primarily for recreational purposes and
not used commercially that is less than a maximum of eighteen feet (18') in
overall length of the recreational vehicle or its contents in, on or attached
to the recreational vehicle (including, but not limited to, outboard motors,
hitches, bumpers, bicycles and any other device(s) in, on or attached).
   B.   Unlawful Parking Or Storage Declared Nuisance: The parking or storing
of small or large recreational vehicles in violation of this section is
declared to constitute a public nuisance.
   C.   Obstructing View Of Traffic: No owner, operator or person assuming
physical control over a small or large recreational vehicle shall park such
recreational vehicle in such a manner to obstruct the view of any motor vehicle
operating on a city street, or block the clear view of any street, street
intersection, alley or driveway. (Ord. 03-1119, 11-17-2003)
   D.   Time Limit For Parking On Street:
      1.   Small Recreational Vehicle: From April 1 to November 1 of each
calendar year, no owner, operator or person assuming physical control over a
small recreational vehicle shall park such small recreational vehicle on any
city street, alley or other highway for a consecutive period greater than
twenty four (24) hours and any such vehicle shall be removed in the manner as
provided for in this section. (Ord. 10-1016, 10-18-2010)
      2.   Large Recreational Vehicle: No owner, operator or person assuming
physical control over a large recreational vehicle shall park such large
recreational vehicle on any city street, alley or other highway for a
consecutive period greater than two (2) hours and any such large recreational
vehicle parked on a city street, alley or other highway for a consecutive
period greater than two (2) hours shall be removed in the manner as provided
for in this section.
   E.   Impoundment:
      1.   Authorized: The police department of the city is hereby authorized
to remove or authorize removal of any recreational vehicle left in place,
stored or parked in violation of this section.
      2.   Removal By Towing Agency: The physical removal of unauthorized
vehicles under this section shall be done by towing agencies, which are
preapproved by the chief of police. All towing agencies used shall be insured
for any loss or damage done to any vehicles while in their custody. The city
shall not assume any responsibility for any damages or loss of property done to
or by such vehicle while in the custody of a towing agency.
      3.   Towing And Storage Fees: Any and all towing fees shall be paid in
full to such towing agency, including storage, by the owner, possessor or
operator of the vehicle so towed before the vehicle shall be released.
      4.   Collection Of Costs:
         a.   Liability Of Property Owner; Filing Of Notice Of Lien: The cost
and expense of removing the recreational vehicle as provided in this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the real estate and shall be a lien
thereon, which lien shall be superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes; provided, however, that, within ninety (90) days
after the completion of removing and disposing of such vehicle, the city
manager or the city attorney shall file notice of lien for the cost and
expenses incurred by the city in the office of the county recorder of deeds.
Upon payment of all costs of removing and/or disposing of the vehicle, the lien
shall be released by the city.
         b.   Enforcement Of Lien: The lien may be enforced by a proceeding to
foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. A suit to foreclose
the lien shall be commenced by the city attorney within two (2) years after the
filing of the notice of lien.
         c.   Court Action For Personal Judgment: If the city's cost of
removing or disposing of the recreational vehicle is not paid to the city
within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the notice of lien, the city attorney
may commence proceedings in the circuit court seeking a personal judgment from
the owner, occupier or person in possession of the vehicle at the time the
proceedings are commenced in the amount of such cost. The action authorized by
this subsection shall be in addition to and without waiver of any other
remedies.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) and not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and further paying in full any towing and storage cost, if
any. (Ord. 03-1119, 11-17-2003)
10-3-9: FAILURE TO MAKE TIMELY PAYMENT OF PARKING TICKETS:
   A.   General: If payments of parking tickets are not made within fifteen
(15) days, including the day the notice was issued, as provided, a warrant of
arrest or notice to appear shall be issued and prosecution shall be in the same
manner prescribed by law for the violation of any ordinance of the city.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
03-0605, 6-2-2003)
10-3-10: SEASONAL STREET SWEEPING:
   A.   The city of East Dubuque has established areas, days, and times that
street sweeping will commence from the date of April 1 to October 31 each and
every year, and
   B.   It is important to remove debris from the gutter line and to keep
debris from blocking drainage infrastructure, and
   C.   The zones will consist of the following:
 
Zone 1 Sinsinawa Avenue, Wall Street, Highway 20, 1st Street, 2nd Street, 3rd
       Street, 4th Street, 5th Street, 6th Street, and the Bridge Approach.
       Peach Street, Cherry Street, Plum Street, Hill Street, Woodlawn Court,
Zone 2 Pear Street, Apple Street, Wisconsin Avenue, St. Mary's Drive, and
       Highway 35.
       Montgomery Avenue, Sidney Street, Sherwood Avenue, Beecher Street,
       Clinton Avenue, Clarendon, Rivoli, Oak Street, East Street, Maple
Zone 3 Street, Elm Street, Hiawatha Drive, Riverview Terrace, Greenwood Avenue,
       Hanley Way, Leibold Court, Scenic Heights, Arrowhead Court and Graham
       Street.
 
On Tuesday and Friday mornings from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. the city will sweep zone 1, and
On Tuesday mornings from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M. the city will sweep the even side of zone 2 and zone 3, and
On Friday mornings from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
the city will sweep the odd side of zone 2 and zone 3, and
   D.   It will be unlawful to park any class of vehicle, dumpster, or trailer
in zone 1, zone 2, or zone 3 during the afore specified schedule and is subject
to a municipal parking fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 11-0517, 5-
16-2011)
10-3-11: FIRE ZONE, FIRE LANES AND THE LIKE:
   A.   The City Manager shall designate fire lanes upon city property as
required, for use by firefighting and related emergency equipment, and to place
(or cause to be placed) signs and/or other authorized markings restricting the
parking in the fire lanes to authorized emergency vehicles only while the
vehicles are responding to a request for emergency service.
   B.   Upon entering into an enforcement contract with the city, the corporate
authority of any school board, hospital or owner of any shopping center or
apartment complex may erect and maintain an approved fire lane notice sign
within those areas designated by the City Manager. Those designated fire lane
areas shall be enforced by the Police Department in the same manner as fire
lanes located on public property.
   C.   Fire lanes shall be designated by special ordinance. (Ord. 23-0817, 8-
21-2023)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Through Streets
10-4-2: One-Way Streets
10-4-3: Stop Intersections
10-4-4: Yield Right Of Way Intersections
10-4-5: Speed Limits
10-4-6: Parking Regulations
10-4-7: U-Turns
10-4-8: Limited Load Streets
10-4-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to constitute
through streets, and it shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into a through
street without first bringing such vehicle to a full stop within ten feet (10')
of the street line, except where traffic is regulated by traffic lights:
SINSINAWA AVENUE between 6th Street and Jordan Avenue.
WALL STREET between 6th Street to the south line of 3rd Street.
WISCONSIN AVENUE between Sinsinawa Avenue and Clinton Street.
(Ord., 9-17-1957)
10-4-2: ONE-WAY STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any of the streets designated
below in any direction other than that indicated:
 
Street                                                      Direction
Alley between Montgomery Avenue and Mortimer Street         Eastbound only
Oxford Street between Sherwood Avenue and Montgomery Avenue Westbound only
 
(Ord., 9-17-1957)
10-4-3: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
 
For Traffic       Stop At          Direction Of Traffic Location Of Stop
Traveling On                                            Sign/Signal
                                                        NE and SW corners of
Clarandon Street  St. Regus        North and south      Clarandon Street and
                                                        St. Regus Street
Montgomery Avenue Elm Street                           Elm Street
                                                        intersection
Plum Street       Hill Street                           
                                                        SW corner of Sherwood
Sherwood Street   St. Regus Street South                Street and St. Regus
                                                        Street
 
   A.   Stop Intersections Generally: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle
into the intersections of the following named streets in the city without first
bringing such vehicle to a full stop at the following intersections:
      1.   Stop Intersections Designated:
Traffic Traveling On Stop At Penalty
Traffic Traveling On                Stop At                             Penalty
Apple Street                        Pear Street                          
Barge Terminal Road, northbound     Route U.S. 20 Frontage Road          
Cherry Street                       Apple Street                         
Clarandon Street                    Livingston Street                    
Clarandon Street, from the north or Greenwood Street                     
south
Clinton Street                      Maple Street                         
Clinton Street                      Sidney Street                        
Elm Street                          Montgomery Avenue                    
Hill Street                         Plum Street                          
Livingston Street                   Rivoli Street                        
Montgomery Avenue                   Elm Street                           
Montgomery Avenue                   Oxford Street                        
Montgomery Avenue                   Sidney Street                        
Montgomery Avenue, from the east or Clarandon Street                     
west
Montgomery Avenue, from the east or East Street                          
west
Montgomery Avenue, from the east or Maple Street                         
west
Montgomery Avenue, from the east or Rivoli Street                        
west
Montgomery Avenue, from the east or Sherwood Avenue                      
west
Peach Street                        Pear Street                          
Peach Street                        Plum Street                          
Plum Street                         Peach Street                         
Ridge Drive                         Badger Road                          
St. Regus Street                    Clarandon Street, going north or     
                                    south
St. Regus Street                    East Street, going north or south    
St. Regus Street                    Maple Street, going north            
St. Regus Street                    Rivoli Street, going north or south  
St. Regus Street                    Sherwood Avenue, going south         
Sherwood Avenue                     Clinton Street                       
Sidney Street                       Montgomery Avenue                    
Timberline Court                    Arrowhead Drive                      
Wall Street                         2nd Street                           
Wall Street, from the west          3rd Street                           
4th Street                          DeSoto Avenue                        
4th Street                          Menominee Avenue                     
4th Street                          Wall Street (Highway 35)             
5th Street                          Menominee Avenue                     
 
      2.   Four-Way Stop Intersections: It shall be unlawful to drive any
vehicle into the following intersections from any of the streets of said
intersections without bringing such vehicle to a full stop at the
intersections:
         DeSoto Avenue and 4th Street
         Montgomery Avenue and Rivoli Street
         Sinsinawa Avenue and Wisconsin Avenue
         Sinsinawa Avenue and 3rd Street
         2nd Street and Wall Street
         5th Street and Wyoto Street
   B.   Stop Signs Posted: The following stop signs are hereby established as
follows:
Intersection Location
Intersection                            Location
Clarendon and St. Regus Street          SW and NE corners
East Street and St. Regus Street        SW and NE corners
Elm Street and Clinton Avenue           SE and NW corners of Elm
Maple Street and St. Regus Street       NE corner
Ridge Drive and Badger Road             SW and NE corners
Rivoli Street and St. Regus Street      SW and NE corners
Sherwood Avenue and St. Regus Street    SW corner
Sidney Street and Montgomery Avenue     NW corner
Timberline Court and Arrowhead Drive    NE corner
Wall Street (Highway 35) and 4th Street SW corner
Wyoto Avenue and 5th Street             All corners - four-way stop
5th Street and Menominee Avenue         NW corner
6th Street and Basten Road              East side of Basten Road
6th Street and Menominee Avenue         NW corner of Menominee
6th Street and Desoto Avenue            NW corner of Desoto
6th Street and Wyota Avenue             NW corner of Wyota Avenue
5th Street and 6th Street               W and E corners of 5th Street
 
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. Ord., 6-15-1961;
Ord., 1-3-1967; Ord., 10-5-1970; Ord., 6-11-1973; Ord., 1975; Ord., 5-20-1985;
Ord., 7-2-1990; Ord., 1993; Ord., 10-6-1997; Ord., 10-5-1998; 2001 Code; Ord.
04-1218, 12-20-2004; Ord. 05-0203, 2-7-2005; Ord. 09-0904, 9-8-2009; Ord. 16-
0713, 7-18-2016; Ord. 22-0720, 7-25-2022)
10-4-4: YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS:
 
Traffic Traveling On Yield To Traffic Traveling On
Clarandon Street     Jordan Avenue
DeSoto Avenue        3rd Street
Plum Street          Hill Street
Sinsinawa Avenue     U.S. Highway 20
Wall Street          Wisconsin Avenue
Water Street         3rd Street
 
(Ord., 1-3-1967; amd. Ord., 11-3-1975; Ord. 22-0720, 7-25-2022)
10-4-5: SPEED LIMITS:
The following speed limits are hereby established on the following streets in
the City:
10 miles per hour:
   All alleys in the corporate limits
20 miles per hour:
   All streets in the corporate limits
Exception: 25 miles per hour for:
   Hill Street
   St. Mary's Drive
   Tomahawk Lane
   Montgomery Avenue (bottom to top)
   Timmerman's Drive (bottom to top)
(Ord., 10-2-1972; amd. Ord. 05-0203, 2-7-2005; Ord. 10-0322, 3-29-2010; Ord.
16-1205, 12-5-2016; Ord. 17-0806, 8-21-2017)
10-4-6: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parallel Parking Only: Vehicles shall be permitted to parallel park
only, in compliance with state law, on the following portions of the following
streets in the city. Diagonal parking is hereby expressly prohibited:
 
Street           Location                     Side Of Street  Penalty
Sinsinawa Avenue Between Hill Street and 300  North and south $ 1.00 minimum
                 feet southeast of 6th Street                 10.00 maximum
Wall Street      Between 3rd Street and 4th   South           1.00 minimum
                 Street                                       10.00 maximum
Wall Street      Between 4th Street and 6th   North and south 1.00 minimum
                 Street                                       10.00 maximum
3rd Street       Between Sinsinawa Avenue and West            1.00 minimum
                 Wall Street                                  10.00 maximum
5th Street       Between Wall Street and      East and west   1.00 minimum
                 Sinsinawa Avenue                             10.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 8-7-1956; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Angle Parking Permitted: Angle parking is permitted on the following
streets and parts of streets in the city:
 
Street            Location                  Side Of Street Penalty
Montgomery Avenue From Sinsinawa Avenue to  North          $ 1.00 minimum
                  Sherwood Avenue                          10.00 maximum
Sinsinawa Avenue  From Jordan Avenue to 3rd Both           1.00 minimum
                  Street                                   10.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets: At any time, it shall be
unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the following places, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic signal:
Street Location Side Of Street Penalty
Street                 Location               Side Of Street Penalty
                       Bridge approach from
                       the east abutment of
                       the Mississippi River                 $ 1.00 minimum
                      Bridge easterly to                   10.00 maximum
                       Station 12+00 (300
                       feet west of the east
                       line of Hill Street)
                      Ramp from 3rd Street                 1.00 minimum
                       to bridge approach                    10.00 maximum
                      Ramp from Wall Street                1.00 minimum
                       to bridge approach                    10.00 maximum
                       Between Sherwood                      5.00 minimum
Beecher Street         Avenue and Gramercy    Southwest      25.00 maximum
                       Street
Butternut Street                             Both           10.00 minimum
                                                             25.00 maximum
Clinton Avenue         See following for full Southeast and  10.00 minimum
                       description            southwest      25.00 maximum
                       Between Sherwood Avenue and Oxford Avenue from the
                       farthest northwestern point of the property line at
                      490 Sherwood Avenue (Iowa State Plane North
                       Coordinates, X=5692225.78 feet and Y=3656702.51
                       feet) and traveling South 19 degrees, 57 minutes and
                       39.9 seconds West at a distance of 196.68 feet to a
                       From Sidney Street to
Clinton Street         the alley, which is                  1.00 minimum
                       the east side of Block                10.00 maximum
                       111
Hill Street            From Sinsinawa Avenue                1.00 minimum
                       to Plum Street                        10.00 maximum
                       From Sinsinawa Avenue                 5.00 minimum
Hill Street            to the East Dubuque    Southeast      25.00 maximum
                       Cemetery
Hilltop Road                                 East           5.00 minimum
                                                             25.00 maximum
                       Beginning 20 feet
                       north of Hilltop                      5.00 minimum
Hilltop Road           residents' mailboxes   West           25.00 maximum
                       extending south to
                       U.S. Highway 20
Jordan Avenue          From Sinsinawa Avenue  Both           5.00 minimum
                       to Clarandon Street                   25.00 maximum
Kane Street            From Clinton Street to Northwest      5.00 minimum
                       Mortimer Street                       25.00 maximum
                       60 feet north of its                  5.00 minimum
Montgomery Avenue      intersection with      West           25.00 maximum
                       Mortimer Street
Montgomery Avenue      From Sidney Street to                5.00 minimum
                       Sherwood Avenue                       25.00 maximum
Montgomery Avenue      From Sherwood Avenue   East           5.00 minimum
                       to East Street                        25.00 maximum
Moody Street cul-de-                                       5.00 minimum
sac                                                          25.00 maximum
                       60 feet northwest of                  5.00 minimum
Mortimer Street        its intersection with  North          25.00 maximum
                       Montgomery Avenue
Oxford Avenue          See following for full North and      10.00 minimum
                       description            south          25.00 maximum
                       From a Municipal water hydrant located at the
                       Southern property line of 475 Sherwood Avenue (Iowa
                       State Plane North Coordinates, X=5692158.74 feet and
                       Y=3656519.83 feet) and traveling North 85 degrees,
                      42 minutes and 25.6 seconds West at a distance of
                       74.23 feet to the farthest Southwestern point of the
                       property line at 475 Oxford Avenue (Iowa State Plane
                       North Coordinates, X=5692084.45 feet and
                       Y=3656526.09 feet).
                       In the 20 foot area
                       commencing at the                     $ 5.00 minimum
Peach Street           south corner of Lot    North          25.00 maximum
                       78, Sunrise
                       Subdivision
                       Between Hill Street
Plum Street            and Peach Street in    East           5.00 minimum
                       the Sunrise                           25.00 maximum
                       Subdivision
Scenic Heights cul-de-                                     5.00 minimum
sac                                                          25.00 maximum
Sherwood Avenue        Between Sidney Street  Southwest      25.00 minimum
                       and Clinton Street                    50.00 maximum
Sidney Street                                North           
Sinsinawa Avenue       From Station 12+00 to                1.00 minimum
                       Hill Street                           10.00 maximum
Sinsinawa Avenue       From 3rd Street to                   1.00 minimum
                       Station 12+00                         10.00 maximum
Sinsinawa Avenue       From 5th Street to 6th West           5.00 minimum
                       Street                                25.00 maximum
Sinsinawa Avenue       From 6th Street to the               150.00 minimum
                       east city limits                      750.00 maximum
Sinsinawa Avenue and Jordan Street intersection as well as that
northwesterly portion of Sinsinawa Avenue that may extend beyond and the
southwesterly portion of Jordan Street that may extend beyond that which is
used as a turnaround for buses and other traffic
Timberline Court                             South          25.00
Wall Street or any     From 1st Street going                 5.00 minimum
extension thereof      north to the end of    East           25.00 maximum
                       the street
Wall Street            From 3rd Street to 4th North          1.00 minimum
                       Street                                10.00 maximum
Wall Street            Between 3rd Street     West           5.00 minimum
                       and 4th Street                        25.00 maximum
Wall Street            Between 5th Street     North          25.00 minimum
                       and 6th Street                        100.00 maximum
3rd Street             From Wall Street to    East           1.00 minimum
                       Sinsinawa Avenue                      10.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 8-7-1956; amd. Ord., 1-3-1967; Ord., 6-5-1967; Ord., 3-5-1973; Ord., 6-
11-1973; Ord., 8-17-1973; Ord., 5-3-1976; Ord., 6-20-1977; Ord., 9-20-1982;
Ord., 4-4-1983; Ord., 10-17-1983; Ord., 1-21-1985; Ord., 10-3-1994; Ord., 3-17-
1997; 2001 Code; Ord. 03-1120, 11-17-2003; Ord. 03-1203, 12-1-2003; Ord. 05-
0203, 2-7-2005; Ord. 17-0605, 6-5-2017; Ord. 2021-0709, 7-6-2021)
   D.   No Parking Areas And Tow Away Zones: No parking areas and tow away
zones are hereby established on the following streets in the City. Costs of
towing vehicles are the responsibility of the owners:
 
Street           Location                         Side Of Street Penalty
                 Commencing at a point 123 feet
Sinsinawa        northwest of 1st Street and                     $ 5.00 minimum
Avenue           continuing for 14 feet. The no-  West           25.00 maximum
                 parking area is 14 feet in
                 length from point of beginning
                 Commencing at a point 590 feet
                 south of Route 35 North and                     5.00 minimum
St. Mary's Drive continuing for 535 feet. The no- Southwest      25.00 maximum
                 parking area is 535 feet in
                 length from point of beginning
                 South 50 feet between the                       10.00 minimum
2nd Street       railroad right-of-way and Wall   East           50.00 maximum
                 Street
 
(Ord., 1-21-1985; amd. Ord., 3-6-1989; 2001 Code; Ord. 17-0605, 6-5-2017)
   E.   Time Limit Parking:
      1.   Thirty Minute Parking: Parking is restricted to thirty (30) minutes
on the following streets in the City, and any motor vehicle must be moved from
its parking space after the expiration of thirty (30) minutes:
 
Street     Location                                Side Of Street Penalty
Montgomery Between its intersection with Sinsinawa Both           $2.00 minimum
Avenue     Avenue and Kane Street                                 5.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 9-8-1987)
      2.   Two Hour Parking: A two (2) hour parking limit for any type of motor
vehicle or any other type of vehicle is hereby established on the following
streets in the City:
 
Street           Location                                 Side Of Penalty
                                                          Street
Sinsinawa Avenue Between 2nd Street and 3rd Street        Both    $2.00 minimum
                                                                  5.00 maximum
Wall Street      Between Wisconsin                        Both    2.00 minimum
                 Avenue and 2nd Street                            5.00 maximum
3rd Street       Between Wall Street and Sinsinawa Avenue West    2.00 minimum
                                                                  5.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. Ord., 9-15-1986; Ord., 1-5-1987)
      3.   Six Hour Parking: Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than six
(6) hours on the following streets in the City:
 
Street           Location
Sinsinawa Avenue Between Jordan Avenue and 2nd Street
 
(Ord., 9-17-1957)
   F.   Parking Pickup Trucks And Vans: There shall be no van or pickup truck
parking on the following streets in the City:
 
Street           Location                                      Penalty
Sinsinawa Avenue Between Wisconsin Avenue (Highway 35) and 2nd $ 5.00 minimum
                 Street                                        25.00 maximum
 
(Ord., 5-19-1986)
   G.   Truck And Trailer Parking Prohibited:
      1.   There shall be no parking of trucks over three-quarter (3/4) ton on
the following streets in the City:
 
Street           Location
Sinsinawa Avenue From Jordan Avenue to Wisconsin Avenue
 
(Ord., 1-3-1967)
      2.   Time Limit Parking: Parking of trucks over one ton shall be limited
to two (2) hours on the following streets in the City:
Wall Street between 1st Street and 6th Street
(Ord., 9-17-1957; amd. Ord., 1-3-1967)
   H.   Motorcycle Parking: There will be motorcycle(s) parking only at all
times in the last designated parking space located at the northeast corner of
Sinsinawa Avenue as it intersects with Montgomery Avenue, in the City. It shall
be unlawful for any person to park more than three (3) motorcycles at the
designated parking space as referenced in this subsection. Any person violating
this subsection shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every offense. (Ord.
00-0916, 9-18-2000)
   I.   Parking For Handicapped Persons: Parking spaces for handicapped
persons, as defined by State law, are hereby established on the following
streets in the City. Any person other than a handicapped person, as defined by
State law, that parks any type of motor vehicle in the established handicapped
parking zone shall be in violation of this subsection:
 
Street    Location                                 Side Of Penalty
                                                   Street
Sinsinawa Approximately half way between the               $ 75.00 minimum
Avenue    intersection of Wisconsin Avenue and 2nd South   150.00 maximum
          Street
 
(Ord., 7-17-1995)
   J.   Parking At Community Center: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any motor vehicle, from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M., seven (7) days a week, at the East Dubuque Community Center parking lot,
except for persons who are employees or patrons conducting library and
Municipal business inside the East Dubuque Community Center. Any person
violating this subsection shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) and
not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every offense. Each day
a motor vehicle is illegally parked at the above location shall be a separate
offense. (Ord. 01-0205, 2-5-2001)
10-4-7: U-TURNS:
No U-turns shall be permitted or allowed on the following streets in the City:
 
Street    Location                                    Direction  Penalty
                                                      Of Traffic
          From its intersection with Wisconsin Avenue
Sinsinawa to its intersection with Jordan Avenue,                $15.00 minimum
Avenue    except at the intersection of Sinsinawa     Either     50.00 maximum
          Avenue and 2nd Street and the intersection
          of Sinsinawa Avenue and Jordan Avenue
 
(Ord., 4-6-1987)
10-4-8: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
No vehicle shall be operated on the following streets in the City in excess of
the following loads:
 
Street              Location                     Load Limit  Penalty1
6th Street          Between Wall Street and Lake 5 tons      $100.00 minimum
                    Avenue                                   750.00 maximum
Barge Terminal Road Within the corporate limits  80,000 lbs. 100.00 minimum
                                                             750.00 maximum
Menominee Avenue    Between 3rd Street           10 tons     100.00 minimum
                    and 6th Street                           750.00 maximum
 
Note:
    1.    625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-101 et seq.
(Ord., 2-7-1961; amd. Ord., 10-5-1970; 2001 Code; Ord. 17-1118, 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Definitions
10-5-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles Prohibited
10-5-3: Leaving Wrecked, Nonoperating, Junked Vehicles On Public Ways
Prohibited
10-5-4: Wrecked, Junked Vehicles On Private Property; Time Limit
10-5-5: Impoundment, Disposal Of Abandoned Vehicles
10-5-6: Exemptions From Provisions
10-5-7: Penalty
10-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (Ord., 10-5-
1970)
10-5-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. (Ord., 10-5-1970)
10-5-3: LEAVING WRECKED, NONOPERATING, JUNKED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS
PROHIBITED:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating vehicle, wrecked
or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city. (Ord., 10-5-1970)
10-5-4: WRECKED, JUNKED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TIME LIMIT:
No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than forty eight (48) hours, and no person shall leave any
such vehicle on any property within the city for longer time than forty eight
(48) hours. (Ord., 10-5-1970)
10-5-5: IMPOUNDMENT, DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
The chief of police or any member of his department designated by him is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the
city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter or lost,
stolen, or unclaimed and dispose of said vehicle in accordance with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq. (Ord., 10-5-1970; amd. Ord. 4-7-
1997; 2001 Code)
10-5-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building,
a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city. (Ord., 10-5-1970)
10-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of each violation is a separate and distinct
offense. (Ord., 10-5-1970; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Purpose And Intent
10-6-3: Roster
10-6-4: Eligibility
10-6-5: Application
10-6-6: Review Of Applications
10-6-7: Non-Assignment
10-6-8: Tow Trucks; Minimum Equipment Standards
10-6-9: Minimum Business And Storage Lot Requirements
10-6-10: Dispatching Requirements
10-6-11: Violations Authorizing Seizure And Administrative Penalty
10-6-12: Notice Of Seizure And Impoundment
10-6-13: Preliminary And Full Hearing
10-6-14: Administrative Penalty
10-6-15: Vehicle Possession
10-6-16: General Regulations
10-6-17: Tow Truck Owner And Driver Duties And Obligations
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
 
                              Any person having a lawfully recorded lien on a
LIENHOLDER OF RECORD:         vehicle as registered with the Illinois Secretary
                              of State.
OWNER OF RECORD OF A VEHICLE: The record title holder as registered with the
                              Illinois Secretary of State.
                              A motor vehicle which has been altered or
                              designed and equipped for and exclusively used in
TOW TRUCK:                    the business of towing vehicles by means of a
                              crane, tow bar, tow line or dolly, or is
                              otherwise exclusively used to render assistance
                              to other vehicles.
                              A company or provider whose primary business is
TOWING SERVICE:               the provision of tow truck services in response
                              to a dispatch or request from the police
                              department or any other municipal department.
TRUCK:                        Any truck weighing over ten thousand (10,000)
                              pounds. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
 
10-6-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to prescribe the basic regulations for the
operation of tow trucks in the removal of motor vehicles and trailers which as
a result of an arrest are left on a public right-of-way, private parking lots,
roadways, driveways (or similar locations) or which are illegally parked,
abandoned, constitute an obstruction to traffic or snow removal operations, or
constitute a public nuisance. It is the purpose of the City Board in enacting
this chapter to provide a fair and impartial means of distributing City
requests for towing services among qualified services, and to ensure that such
services are prompt and are provided in the best interest of the public, as
well as the interest of efficient removal of such vehicles. In enacting this
chapter, it is not the purpose of the board to regulate towing services other
than those dispatched or requested by City personnel. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-3: ROSTER:
All towing services selected and designated to provide towing services under
this chapter shall be listed on a roster to be kept by the police department.
The roster of towing services shall, at all reasonable times, be open to public
inspection. The maximum number of towing services on said roster shall not
exceed six (6) firms at any one time. The roster of towing services shall be
effective for a period of two (2) years commencing January 1, 2021 and continue
unless amended by the City Council. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-4: ELIGIBILITY:
A towing service shall become eligible to be listed on the roster and
participate in the assignment of service calls by the police department if it
meets the requirements set forth in this chapter. No person or towing service
shall be placed on the roster or operate a tow truck on tow roster calls if
that person or towing service has been convicted under the laws of Illinois or
any other state of an offense which under the laws of Illinois would be a
felony theft of a vehicle or a felony offense under article 1, chapter 4 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, or has been fined by the Illinois Commerce Commission.
(Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-5: APPLICATION:
Any towing service meeting the minimum eligibility requirements may submit a
verified application to the City to participate in police towing operations.
The application shall be in a form provided by the City Clerk, and shall elicit
the following information:
   A.   Business Operation:
      1.   Name Of Towing Service: Indicate whether a corporation or
partnership, list all parties having a financial interest in the towing
service, including names and addresses, and number of years the business has
been established.
      2.   Experience: List number of years and locations of participation in
similar police towing services, together with any commendations or written
complaints received from governmental agencies in conduct of the business
within the last five years.
      3.   Stability: State business activities of the towing service aside
from participation in police towing activities.
      4.   Attendants And Drivers: List names and addresses of all attendants
and drivers who will conduct the towing service, as well as number of years
employed, training received by attendants and drivers, and experience of the
personnel in the conduct of the business. Said list shall be updated within ten
(10) days on any new attendants and/or drivers being employed.
      5.   Equipment: Describe available equipment to be used in towing
services, particularly in terms of comparative qualities or capacities as
related to minimum eligibility requirements.
      6.   Communications: Describe the method of operation of the
communications system between the place of business and operating tow trucks,
as well as the means utilized for ensuring prompt dispatch of trucks upon
receipt of call from the police department.
      7.   Other Facilities And Personnel Available: List all provisions for
record keeping, backup personnel and auxiliary services which might be required
to effectively carry out a high level of service to the public in the business
of tow truck operations.
   B.   Business Location And Storage Lot:
      1.   Primary Business Location: List location of primary business
operation, including dimensions and types of facilities available.
      2.   Storage Lot: List location of storage lots, zoning classification,
dimensions thereof, relationship to primary business operation, and the type of
protection provided at the lot(s). (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-6: REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the police chief or his designated agents to
investigate all applications and renewals submitted under this chapter and
place all eligible firms on the roster. The police chief shall disapprove of
any application or renewal if, after due investigation, he finds that the
applicant does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter. The
police chief shall notify an applicant in writing if an application or renewal
is disapproved and state the reasons for such disapproval. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-
2021)
10-6-7: NON-ASSIGNMENT:
Any towing service listed on the roster shall not assign its place to other
towing services nor assign any calls without written consent of the police
chief. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-8: TOW TRUCKS; MINIMUM EQUIPMENT STANDARDS:
Minimum equipment standards for tow trucks shall be as follows:
   A.   Truck Chassis: At least one rig of one-ton capacity with rear dual
wheels. The police officer on the scene shall determine if greater capacity is
needed and shall call upon any service capable of providing that capacity
regardless of whether or not the company is on the roster of the City or
whether it is their period of time to receive police requests.
   B.   Company Information: Company name, address or phone number on both
sides of tow truck.
   C.   Lights: Trucks must, at all times, be equipped with such headlights,
taillights, red reflectors, stoplights, warning lights, etc., as required by
state law, plus one white utility light (adjustable or portable), and may be
equipped with such other lights as the owner may desire which are not forbidden
by law.
   D.   Winch: To be power-driven by power takeoff from transmission equipped
with safety dogs or equivalent braking devices.
   E.   Additional Equipment: Trucks must be equipped with oil dry, red flares,
lanterns or reflectors, hand tools, crowbar, rope, broom, shovel, dustpan, fire
extinguisher (dry chemical type), portable red taillight and stoplight for
towed vehicles, equipment for opening locked vehicles and safety snubber chain.
Each towing service shall have at least one set of dollies readily available at
all times. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-9: MINIMUM BUSINESS AND STORAGE LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Business And Storage: The business and storage lot of a towing service
must be a reasonable distance from public transportation and the storage lot
must be in close proximity to the place of business, the storage lot must have
adequate storage space (at least fifty feet (50') by one hundred feet (100') or
equivalent area) to accommodate thirty (30) cars, either under cover or well
fenced. The towing service must exercise ordinary care to keep stored vehicles
and contents safe from theft.
   B.   Hours: There shall be an attendant on call, capable of responding to
police requests for towing twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
An attendant shall be on call to be present or available for the recovery of 1)
towed vehicles and 2) personal items from towed vehicles by an authorized party
Monday through Friday from seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00)
P.M., except for New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   C.   Records: Each garage shall keep a record of the vehicle and license
number; date and time it was towed; location from which it was towed; name of
officer ordering the towing; and whether the vehicle was impounded or towed at
the owner's request. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-10: DISPATCHING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All requests for towing service pursuant to this chapter shall be made
through the police department.
   B.   When it becomes evident that there will be a delay in responding to a
request for towing service, the towing service concerned shall advise the
police department of this delay.
   C.   Tow trucks shall be dispatched from the place of business, or a
reasonable distance from the place of business, as determined by the police
department. The police department may, from time to time, establish a policy
with regard to distribution of requests for towing service among the successful
applicants, provided that the policy is fair and equitable to all firms listed
on the roster. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-11: VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING SEIZURE AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
   A.   Violations Authorizing Seizure: Except as provided in section
10-6-16, a motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of
the owner of record, that is used in connection with the violations set forth
in subsections A1 through A35 below, shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment by the City, and the owner of record of said vehicle shall be
liable to the City for an administrative penalty in the amount of five hundred
dollars ($500.00), which shall be in addition to any towing and storage fees
charged by the towing service as provided herein. The administrative penalty
shall be assessed to cover costs associated with the investigation, arrest and
detention of an offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage, and release of
the vehicle. It shall not be necessary for criminal charges to be filed,
prosecuted, and/or proven in order to demonstrate that one or more of the
following violations has/have been committed:
      1.   Driving with suspended or revoked license, 625 ILCS 5/6-303, except
that a vehicle shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to
comply with emission testing;
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, any intoxicating
compound or a combination of alcohol, drugs, or any intoxicating compound, 625
ILCS 5/11-501(a);
      3.   When a motor vehicle is operated by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Court in Illinois, failing to answer charges that
the driver violated subsection A1 or A2 of the above or for a violation of 625
ILCS 5/6-101;
      4.   Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer, third or subsequent
offense, 625 ILCS 5/11-204(c);
      5.   Aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer, 625 ILCS
5/11-204.1;
      6.   Leaving the scene, after involvement in a motor vehicle accident
involving death or personal injury, 625 ILCS 5/11-401;
      7.   Reckless driving or reckless driving causing bodily harm to a child
or school crossing guard, 625 ILCS 5/11-503(a), (b), (b-1), (c) and (d);
      8.   Aggravated reckless driving, 625 ILCS 5/11-503(c);
      9.   Reckless driving causing great bodily harm or permanent disability
or disfigurement to a child or a school crossing guard, 625 ILCS 5/11-503(d);
      10.   Street racing, second or subsequent offense, pursuant to 625 ILCS
5/11-506;
      11.   Aggravated street racing, 625 ILCS 5/11-506(d)(3);
      12.   Illegal transportation of alcohol/driver, 625 ILCS 5/11-502(a);
      13.   The following firearms offenses:
         a.   Unlawful use of weapons, 720 ILCS 5/24-1;
         b.   Unlawful use or possession of weapons by felons or persons in the
custody of the Department of Corrections facilities, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.1;
         c.   Aggravated discharge of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.2;
         d.   Aggravated discharge of a machine gun or a firearm equipped with
a device designed or used for silencing the report of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-
1.2-5;
         e.   Reckless discharge of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5;
         f.   Aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.6;
         g.   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition, 720 ILCS
5/24-3.1;
         h.   Unlawful sale or delivery of a firearm on the premises of any
school, 720 ILCS 5/24-3.3;
      14.   Indecent solicitation of a child, 720 ILCS 5/11-6;
      15.   Aggravated assault, 720 ILCS 5/12-2;
      16.   Aggravated battery, 720 ILCS 5/12-3.05;
      17.   Theft, 720 ILCS 5/16-1;
      18.   Theft of lost or mislaid property, 720 ILCS 5/16-2;
      19.   Theft from coin operated machine, 720 ILCS 5/16-5;
      20.   Tampering with or theft of communication services, 720 ILCS 5/16-
18;
      21.   Retail theft, 720 ILCS 5/16-25;
      22.   Robbery, 720 ILCS 5/18-1;
      23.   Armed robbery, 720 ILCS 5/18-2;
      24.   Burglary, 720 ILCS 5/19-1;
      25.   Residential burglary, 720 ILCS 5/19-3;
      26.   Arson, 720 ILCS 5/20-1;
      27.   Aggravated arson, 720 ILCS 5/20-1;
      28.   Possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices, 720
ILCS 5/20-2;
      29.   Criminal damage to property, 720 ILCS 5/21-1;
      30.   Mob action, 720 ILCS 5/25-1;
      31.   The operation or use of a motor vehicle:
         a.   In the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a violation of
the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.;
         b.   In the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a violation of
the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.; or
         c.   While soliciting, possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess
cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined by the Cannabis Control Act 720
ILCS 550/1 et seq., or the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100
et seq.;
      32.   The following sexual offenses:
         a.   Prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14;
         b.   Solicitation of a sexual act, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.1;
         c.   Promoting prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.3;
         d.   Promoting juvenile prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.4;
         e.   Patronizing a prostitute, 720 ILCS 5/11-18;
         f.   Patronizing a juvenile prostitute, 720 ILCS 5/11-18.1;
      33.   The motor vehicle is otherwise subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/36-1;
      34.   A violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-03 (reckless driving) while the
vehicle is part of a funeral procession, or in a manner that interferes with a
funeral procession; or
      35.   A violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-10 (drivers must have licenses or
permits), except where the violation is for a license which has been expired
for twelve (12) months or less, or for a license which is invalid because of
curfew (as in the case of a graduated license).
   B.   Imposition Of Administrative Penalty: The following shall apply to the
administrative penalty imposed for costs for seizure pursuant to subsection A
above:
      1.   All administrative penalties and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agent of that
owner.
      2.   The fees shall be in addition to:
         a.   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for
the underlying violation; and
         b.   Any towing or storage fees or both, charged by the towing
company.
      3.   The officers on the scene shall advise the owner of record of the
vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, as to whether such tow requires charging the penalty
specified in subsection A hereof. If an administrative penalty is to be
imposed, the penalty shall be paid directly to the City, and payment shall be
made at the City police department.
      4.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the towing service that tows and stores the impounded vehicles.
      5.   The towing service shall keep detailed records regarding vehicles
towed hereunder, rates charged, and fees paid. Said records shall be available
for inspection by the police department upon two (2) days request by the police
department.
      6.   In lieu of the City imposing a fee upon a towing service providing
services hereunder, the towing service shall (by applying to be placed on the
roster and accepting placement thereon) perform the following services to City
police vehicles (located within City boundaries) at the request of the City:
         a.   Provide tows of City police vehicles that have broken down; and
         b.   Provide the changing of flat tires for City police vehicles (or
tow said vehicles). (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-12: NOTICE OF SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
City. The police officer shall notify the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle and any lienholder of record, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle and of owner's right to request an administrative hearing, as provided
for in this chapter. Said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of
the administrative hearing, an administrative tow fee of two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00), and the towing and storage charges are paid. (Ord. 21-0110,
1-11-2021)
10-6-13: PRELIMINARY AND FULL HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Officer: The police chief shall designate from time to time a
person within the police department as a preliminary hearing officer and an
attorney licensed to practice law in the state for at least a minimum of three
(3) prior years as the hearing officer.
   B.   Preliminary Hearing: Within twenty-four (24) hours of any vehicle being
seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, if requested by any owner of
record, lessee, or any lienholder of record, the preliminary hearing officer
shall allow for preliminary hearing at which time said owner of record, lessee,
or any lienholder of record may present any evidence said person desires which
would demonstrate a defense to said seizure and impoundment. The preliminary
hearing may be conducted in person, over the phone or by other communication
method or combination of communication methods. If the preliminary hearing
officer determines that said evidence supports such a defense, the police
department may release said vehicle without further process. If the preliminary
hearing officer determines that said evidence does not support such a defense,
then the preliminary hearing officer shall proceed to a full hearing as
outlined in the subsection (C) below.
   C.   Full Administrative Hearing: If the vehicle remains impounded, and
absent a determination to release vehicle, a full administrative hearing shall
be scheduled within sixty (60) days from the date of the seizure and
impoundment.
      1.   Notice Of Administrative Hearing: Notice shall be given in writing
within thirty (30) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded by personal
delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested to the registered owner
or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of record, stating the stating the
date, time, location of the administrative hearing and requesting a plea of
guilty or not guilty.
      2.   Guilty Plea: If the owner returns a guilty plea, the matter may be
disposed of without administrative hearing on the basis of the guilty plea.
      3.   Hearing: If the owner pleads not guilty or fails to respond, the
administrative hearing will proceed as scheduled, unless continued by order of
the hearing officer, no later than sixty (60) days after the initial
administrative hearing. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the hearing date,
the hearing officer may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses to
appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not
apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible, but only if it
is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably-prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
      4.   Administrative Determination: After the hearing, the hearing officer
(s) shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment. If the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence
that the vehicle was used in connection with a violation set forth in this
section, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record
of the vehicle civilly liable to the City for an administrative penalty in an
amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) and requiring
the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative
penalty to the City (or to the towing firm as directed by the City) plus fees
to the towing firm for the towing and storage of the vehicle. If the hearing
officer finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer shall order
the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond without fees.
      5.   Default: If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the City.
      6.   Appeal: An owner may appeal the determination made by the hearing
officer pursuant to the administrative review law. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-14: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section, such penalty
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the City. If a cash bond has been
posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the penalty.
Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or
administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or
in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under
the administrative review law may be enforced by obtaining a judgment in the
local circuit court and pursuing enforcement of the judgment. Except as
provided otherwise in this section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded
until the penalty is paid to the City and any applicable towing and storage
fees are paid, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the
person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or
otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by
law. If the vehicle is not retrieved within sixty (60) days after an
administrative hearing officer issues a written decision, the vehicle shall be
deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of abandoned vehicles, as set forth in article II, chapter 4 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-15: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, or as set forth in
this section, no owner, lien holder, or other person shall be legally entitled
to take possession of a vehicle impounded under this chapter until the
administrative penalty and any fees or costs that are applicable have been
paid.
   B.   A person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle may obtain
possession of the vehicle if formal foreclosure proceedings have been
initiated, provided that the lienholder agrees in writing to pay from the net
proceeds of any foreclosure sale, the administrative penalty, plus the
applicable fees and costs imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-16: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state
or federal laws or City ordinance pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
   B.   This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation of
law was stolen at that time, and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authorities within twenty-four (24) hours after the theft was
discovered.
   C.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this chapter shall be
those approved by the chief of police for all towers authorized to tow for the
police department. (Ord. 21-0110, 1-11-2021)
10-6-17: TOW TRUCK OWNER AND DRIVER DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS:
The following duties and obligations shall apply in regard to the tow trucks,
tow truck owners and to trick drivers:
   A.   Removal Of Hazards; Police To Determine Necessity Of Removing Vehicles:
After being dispatched by the police department to the scene, the tow truck
operator shall cooperate with the police officers in removing hazards and
illegally parked vehicles as requested. It is the duty of the police officers
to determine when such a vehicle should be impounded or moved, and the tow
truck operator shall abide by their decisions. Officers shall refer to police
department policies (as amended from time to time) for said determinations.
   B.   Identification Of Tow Trucks: Only tow trucks bearing the name of the
towing service called shall be dispatched to the scene of need.
   C.   Conduct: All owners of towing services shall conduct their business in
an orderly and businesslike manner and use every means to avoid any conflicts
between any interested parties. The primary measure to be used by the City in
determining whether a towing service has violated this section will be the
number and type of complaints received by the City from the public. The police
department is charged with the investigation of all complaints related to
towing services.
   D.   Protection Of Vehicles: Vehicles impounded by the police for special
investigations, i.e., fingerprints, etc., shall be held in maximum security
until cleared by the investigating officers. Contents of vehicles with a police
hold shall not be removed until cleared by the investigating officers.
   E.   Responsibility For Employees' Acts: The owners of a tow truck
participating in towing assignments by the police department shall be
responsible for the acts of their employees while on duty. Towing services
shall be responsible for damage to vehicles while in their possession (with the
exception of occurrences that are out of the reasonable control of the towing
service).
   F.   Periodic Inspection Of Records, Equipment, Facilities: Towing services
on the roster shall be subject to periodic checks of all towing service's
records, equipment and storage facilities by police officers. A towing service
that fails to produce tow records or allow for inspections of its equipment and
facilities at the request of the police shall be immediately suspended from the
roster until further investigation.
   G.   Damage Appraisals: All vehicles stored or impounded as a result of a
tow ordered by the police department shall be made available for inspection to
the owner of the vehicle or his representative, any insurance agent, insurance
adjuster, or any body shop or car dealer, for the purpose of estimating or
appraising damages, except vehicles with a police hold.
   H.   Access To Vehicles: Vehicles impounded or to be impounded by a towing
service shall be accessible to police department personnel, and employees of
the towing service shall be required to assist police department personnel in
respect to the impounded vehicles upon request.
   I.   Itemized Statements, When Required:
      1.   A person conducting towing services shall furnish an itemized
statement of services performed, labor and special equipment used in completing
the tow of a vehicle and the charges made therefor to and upon the request of:
         a.   The person requesting the towing service;
         b.   The registered owner of the vehicle towed;
         c.   The insurance carrier of either subsection (a) or (b) above;
         d.   The duly authorized agent of subsection (a), (b) or (c) above.
      2.   A person conducting towing services shall furnish a copy of the
statement to any person authorized by this section to receive the statement
without demanding payment as a condition precedent. The chief of police or his
designee shall have authority over determining who may have access to towed
vehicles ordered by the City during any dispute that may arise from this
section.
   J.   Vehicle Repair Or Alteration, When Permitted: A person conducting
towing services shall refrain from making any repairs or alterations to a towed
vehicle without first being authorized by the City. Parts or accessories shall
not be removed from a towed vehicle without authorization except as necessary
for security purposes. Under such circumstances, the parts or accessories
removed shall be listed on the itemized statement and stored in the business
office. This section shall not be construed to prohibit persons conducting
towing services from making emergency alterations necessary to permit the
removal vehicles by the tow service.
   K.   Facilities To Conform To Building Code: Towing services' storage lots,
buildings, fencing, driveways, etc., must conform to the building code
requirements of the municipality in which the property is located.
   L.   Zoning Requirements: Business and storage lots of towing services must
conform to the zoning regulations of the municipality in which the property is
located.
   M.   Storage Lot Capacity: At no time shall the storage lot of a towing
service be filled to more than fifty percent (50%) capacity. Should the lot be
filled greater than that limit, the City may suspend towing until such time as
the number of the vehicles in the lot is reduced to within the above-stated
capacity.
   N.   Deviation From Roster: Any and all tow truck operators not selected and
designated pursuant to this chapter are prohibited from removing from the
public streets and towing away any vehicles involved in the situations as set
forth in this chapter.
   O.   Insurance:
      1.   Each towing service listed on the roster shall have, in full force
and effect, during the period the service remains on the roster, public
liability, property damage and fire and theft insurance coverage as follows.
The City shall be listed as an additional insured on each policy. Proof of such
coverage shall be a minimum eligibility requirement.
         a.   Comprehensive general liability must include the following
industry standard forms of insurance:
            (1)   Premises/operation coverage;
            (2)   Products and completed operations coverage;
            (3)   Blanket contractual liability;
            (4)   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) combined single
limit, or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) bodily injury and two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property damage.
         b.   Comprehensive auto liability must include the following
endorsements:
            (1)   All owned autos, hired-car coverage, and employers non-owned
auto coverage;
            (2)   The policy shall not contain a radius restriction of less
than fifty (50) miles;
            (3)   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) on hook liability.
         c.   Garage Keeper's Legal Liability Or Motor Truck Cargo: The towing
service shall provide coverage for the vehicles in their custody. Either a
motor truck cargo policy, listing all storage lots as terminal locations or
garage keepers' legal liability shall be required. The minimum amount of
coverage shall be no less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
         d.   Workers' Compensation And Employers' Liability: Statutory limits
for workmen's compensation and a one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
employers' liability limit.
      2.   Each towing service shall supply the City with a certificate of
insurance, which indicates coverage for the above-mentioned minimum insurance
requirements and City at least sixty (60) days' notice of cancellation or
material change. The certificate of insurance shall name the City as additional
insured.
   P.   City Indemnification: If any service listed on the roster performs
towing services in a manner not in accordance with the provisions contained in
this chapter, the police department is held harmless from any and all liability
or damage arising therefrom and by participating in the roster, the towing
service hereby indemnifies and holds harmless the City and the police
department and its employees, officers, agents and assigns (indemnitees), for
any and all liability, obligation, damages, penalties, claims, liens, costs,
charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees
and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants), which may be
imposed upon, incurred by or be asserted against the indemnitees by reason of
any act or omission of the towing service, its personnel, employees, agents,
contractors or subcontractors, resulting in personal injury, bodily injury,
sickness, disease or death to any person or damage to, loss of or destruction
of tangible or intangible property, or any other claims which may arise out of
or be in any way connected with the towing services operations performed under
this chapter.
   Q.   Removal Or Suspension From Roster:
      1.   Any deviation from the requirements established in this chapter, or
failure at any time to provide reasonable, quick and efficient service may
result in the temporary suspension for no more than sixty (60) days or removal
of the name of such towing service from the roster upon the determination of
the police chief.
      2.   The police chief shall provide the tow operator with written notice
at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date of the suspension/
removal by delivering said notice to the tow operator's place of business. Said
written notice shall include:
         a.   The effective date of the suspension/removal;
         b.   Whether the suspension/removal is temporary or permanent;
         c.   The allegations which form the basis of the suspension/removal;
         d.   The actions, if any, the tow operator may take to prevent the
suspension/removal from occurring;
         e.   The procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a
hearing to appeal the suspension/removal;
         f.   That the towing service may request a hearing by submitting
formal request for hearing in writing within seven (7) days from the date of
the delivery of notice; and
         g.   If no hearing is requested, the suspension/removal shall stand.
      3.   If a hearing is requested, the City Administrator shall act as
hearing officer. The City shall set a time for the hearing within thirty (30)
business days of receipt the request (if the request is timely made). If the
towing service is unavailable at the time provided by the City, the City may
(in its discretion) reschedule the hearing, but the suspension/removal will
continue until the hearing unless the City is unable to provide an alternative
hearing date within the next three (3) days after the initial hearing date.
      4.   The hearing shall be informal and provide both sides with the
opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the suspension/removal. The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a preponderance of
the presented evidence within thirty (30) days of the hearing. The opinion will
be sent to the towing service's business address with a copy retained in the
towing services application file. The City or the towing service may contest
the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law. (Ord. 21-
0110, 1-11-2021)
CHAPTER 7
UTILITY TASK VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Operation Of UTVs And Golf Carts
10-7-2: Required Equipment For The Operation Of UTVs And Golf Carts
10-7-3: Permits
10-7-4: Enforcement
10-7-1: OPERATION OF UTVS AND GOLF CARTS:
   UTVs and Golf Carts may only be operated on the public streets and alley
ways in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Any person who operates a UTV or Golf Cart in the City of East Dubuque
shall be fully responsibility for all liability associated with its operation
and shall further maintain a policy of liability insurance for the operation of
said UTV or Golf Cart in accordance with the minimum limits of liability
required by the State of Illinois and as further described below.
   B.   Any person who operates a UTV or Golf Cart on city streets must be at
least 18 years of age and possess a valid motor vehicle driver’s license issued
by the State of Illinois or another state.
   C.   No person may operate, and no owner shall permit another person to
operate a UTV or Golf Cart on a city street unless:
      1.   The UTV or Golf Cart is covered by a liability insurance policy as
required by Section 7-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601); and
      2.   The operator of the UTV or Golf Cart carries with him proof of
liability insurance as required by Section 7-602 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/7-602).
   D.   UTV’s or Golf Carts may be operated at any time of the day or night if
equipped with headlights, taillights visible for at least 500 feet from the
front and rear of the UTV or Golf Cart.
   E.   No person shall operate a UTV or Golf Cart on a street or alley way in
excess of the posted speed limit.
   F.   UTV’s may not be operated on a State Highway except to cross said
Highway at an intersection in a path 90 degrees perpendicular or in a manner as
direct as possible across said highway, to the nearest intersecting street.
   G.   UTV’s or Golf Carts shall have their headlights and taillights on at
all times when operating on city streets.
   H.   UTV’s or Golf Carts may not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions that may affect visibility, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   I.   UTV’s or Golf Carts may not be operated on sidewalks.
   J.   UTV or Golf Cart drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking
(faster) vehicles at all times.
   K.   Any person who operates a UTV or Golf Cart on the streets of the City
of East Dubuque must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages and all illegal drugs, as well as all
other Illinois or municipal traffic laws.
   L.   The maximum occupancy of UTV’s or Golf Carts traveling on city streets
shall be equal to the amount of safety belts or passenger restraints properly
installed on the UTV or Golf Cart.
   M.   Each driver and passenger of a UTV or Golf Cart shall wear a properly
fastened and adjusted seat safety belt. Children must be secured in a child
restraint system as required in the Illinois Child Passenger Protection Act
(625 ILCS 25/1 et seq).
   N.   UTV’s or Golf Carts are only allowed to park in handicapped parking
spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking
sticker or placard and said sticker or placard is visibly displayed.
   O.   The operator of a UTV or Golf Cart shall obey all ordinances of the
City of East Dubuque and all provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as
amended from time to time.
   P.   The operator of a UTV or Golf Cart that is being used to plow snow must
have a flashing orange light visible for at least 100 feet from the front or
back of the UTV.
(Ord. 24-0708, 7-15-2024)
10-7-2: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT FOR THE OPERATION OF UTVS AND GOLF CARTS:
   A.   The following shall be considered Required Equipment necessary to
operate a UTV or Golf Cart on the Streets or Alley ways of East Dubuque,
Illinois
      1.   Steering wheel apparatus;
      2.   Seat belt for each passenger;
      3.   Tires,
      4.   Turn signals, front and rear;
      5.   Rearview mirror;
      6.   Brakes and brake lights on rear;
      7.   Headlights emitting white light visible from at least 500 feet;
      8.   Taillights emitting red light visible from at least 500 feet;
      9.   Standard factory exhaust;
      10.   Red reflector warning devices front and rear;
      11.   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem attached to the rear; and
      12.   Orange flashing light visible for at least 100 feet in the event
that the UTV or Golf Cart is to be used for the plowing of snow.
(Ord. 24-0708, 7-15-2024)
10-7-3: PERMITS:
   A.   No one shall operate a UTV or Golf Cart without the owner of said UTV
or Golf Cart obtaining a permit from the City of East Dubuque, as provided in
this section. Permits may be obtained from the City of East Dubuque for $35 per
year and will be issued for each fiscal year (May 1 to April 30) with no
proration.
   B.   Permits shall be granted for one year or the period of ownership by the
Permit holder of the UTV or Golf Cart, whichever is less, by the person who
received the permit and will remain valid as long as they continue to meet the
requirements and pay the annual fee.
   C.   Proof of insurance coverage will be required and verified before
issuing or renewing any and all Permits.
   D.   UTV or Golf Cart owners must complete a Permit Application form
supplied by the City of East Dubuque and containing the following information:
name of owner, address of owner, phone number of owner, make, model, serial
number, name of liability insurance carrier and insurance policy number.
   E.   After completion of the Application and payment of the Permit Fee, the
applicant shall present the UTV or Golf Cart to the Chief of Police or designee
for an inspection to determine whether the UTV or Golf Cart may be operated on
city streets. If the owner Applicant and UTV or Golf Cart are qualified under
the terms and conditions of this chapter, the permit must be displayed at all
times on the rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. 24-0708, 7-15-2024)
10-7-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   The City of East Dubuque may prosecute violators for any act constituting a
violation of this chapter. Any person who violates any provision of this
ordinance shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $50 and not more than $500, plus the cost of prosecution.
   A.   The Permit held by the owner of a UTV or Golf Cart issued pursuant to
this subchapter may be suspended by the Chief of Police or designee if
      1.   There is any material misrepresentation made by the Applicant on the
Permit Application;
      2.   The required policy of liability insurance is no longer in full
force and effect or has not been replaced by another, valid policy of liability
insurance;
      3.   There is evidence that the owner or Permit holder operating the UTV
or Golf Cart can no longer safely operate the UTV or Golf Cart; or
      4.   For any reason that the Chief of Police or the designee of the Chief
of Police feels is appropriate to insure the safety and well-being of the
citizens of the City of East Dubuque.
      5.   The Chief of Police or designee shall issue a notice of suspension
of a Permit in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the license holder
or send the notice by certified mail to the license holder at the address on
the Application. Suspension of a Permit shall be effective immediately after
personal service or on the third day after the postmark on the certified mail
receipt.
(Ord. 24-0708, 7-15-2024)
TITLE 11
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PLAN AND SPECIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Snow And Ice
11-2-2: Repair And Replacement Of Sidewalks
11-2-3: Driveway Construction
11-2-4: Penalty
11-2-5: Refuse Dumpster Permit
11-2-1: SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   Removal From Sidewalks Required: Every owner or occupant of any house
or other building and the owner, proprietor, lessee, or person entitled to the
possession of any vacant lot, and every person having the charge of any church,
or public building, except municipal facilities, in the city which shall front
or adjoin upon any public street shall, during the winter season, and during
the time snow shall continue on the ground, by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of
each day, clear the sidewalks in front of or adjoining such house or other
building and in front of or adjoining such lot from snow and ice, and keep such
sidewalks conveniently free therefrom during the day; or shall, in case the
snow and ice are so congealed that they cannot be removed without damage to the
sidewalk surface, cause the snow and ice to be strewn with ashes or sand; and
shall also, at all times, keep such sidewalks free from dirt, filth, or other
obstructions or encumbrances, so as to allow citizens to use the sidewalks in a
safe and commodious manner. (2001 Code)
   B.   Deposits On Public Ways Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to shovel, push, blow, throw, deposit, or cause to be deposited snow or ice in
any street, alley, or roadway within the city or on any of the public sidewalks
therein. (Ord., 12-4-1995)
   C.   Injunction For Enforcement: The city may also apply for an injunction
to enforce this section. (2001 Code)
11-2-2: REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   City Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city council
that safe sidewalks should exist on both sides of all streets in the city, as
said streets exist now or hereafter.
   B.   Repair And Replacement Requirements: The city council shall, by
resolution, order property owners to replace or repair sidewalks along the
frontage of their property in the public right of way. Such sidewalks will be
replaced or repaired according to the specifications of the city and, when so
ordered done, within ninety (90) days.
   C.   Injunction For Enforcement: The city may apply for an injunction to
enforce this section. (Ord., 7-6-1981; amd. 2001 Code)
11-2-3: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION 1 :
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person
to construct, reconstruct, alter, remodel or improve any driveway, whether in
existence at the present time or not, without first obtaining a permit so to
do, as hereinafter provided, and otherwise complying with the provisions of
this section. Any person desiring to construct, reconstruct, alter, remodel or
improve any driveway shall first obtain a permit to do so from the city clerk.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for the permit shall state
the name of the property owner, the person doing the constructing,
reconstructing, altering, remodeling or improving said driveway, the width of
the proposed driveway and a brief description of the proposed driveway
including the grade and the type of materials to be used in constructing,
reconstructing, altering, remodeling or improving said driveway. (Ord., 10-2-
1956)
      3.   Investigation Of Site: The application shall be referred to the city
manager, city engineer, zoning administrator and/or public works director, who
shall investigate the site of the proposed driveway, refer to the application
for permit, examine existing ordinances of the city and physical facts at the
site of the proposed driveway and report back to the city council at their next
meeting. (Ord., 10-2-1956; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: The city council shall determine
whether said driveway, as constructed, reconstructed, altered, remodeled or
improved, will be in the interest of public safety and welfare and, upon
favorable determination, permit shall issue, otherwise not.
   B.   Reconstruction Of Existing Driveways: Existing driveways that are not
in the interest of the public safety may be reconstructed to be in the interest
of the public safety in the following manner:
      1.   The city council, after inspecting any driveway, shall first make a
determination by resolution that said driveway is not in the interest of public
safety, which resolution is to be set forth in writing with the reasons
therefor. (Ord., 10-2-1956)
      2.   After making such determination, the city manager shall, within ten
(10) days thereafter, send a notice by registered or certified mail to the
owner of the property notifying him to appear before the next regular meeting
of the city council then and there to explain the reasons, if any, said
driveway should be permitted to remain in its existing condition which is not
in the interest of public safety; provided, however, said notice shall be
received by the owner at least five (5) days before the council meeting; if
not, he is then to appear at the next regular city council meeting.
      3.   If there are no reasons for the continuance of the driveway in its
present unsafe condition, the city manager and/or the city engineer may be
instructed to make certain recommendations in writing as to the reconstruction
of the driveway which will make it a safe driveway and in the interest of
public safety with due regard for any unreasonable costs in connection with
said reconstruction.
      4.   A copy of these written recommendations shall be forwarded to the
property owner and he shall, within ten (10) days of the receipt thereof, file,
in writing, any objections he may have to the recommendations offered. If no
objections are filed, the improvements as recommended shall be completed by him
within ninety (90) days unless prevented by inclement weather or act of God. If
written objections are filed, they shall be heard and considered at the next
regular meeting of the city council and due allowance given to any matters then
and there brought forth.
      5.   The council, after hearing the recommendations, written objections
and testimony of any persons interested, shall make a finding as to whether or
not these recommendations are in the interest of the public safety, and their
finding shall be set forth in a written resolution, and a copy shall be
forwarded to the property owner.
      6.   The property owner shall complete the improvements as recommended
within ninety (90) days if the finding is that the recommendations are in the
interest of the public safety, otherwise not.
   C.   Bond Requirements: No separate bond provisions are inserted herein, and
all bond provisions of all other ordinances are hereby expressly ratified,
approved and reenacted insofar as they may apply to the subject matter
contained herein. (Ord., 10-2-1956; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection
1 15-6-3C6 of this code for construction specifications for driveways other
  than those accessory to single-family dwellings.
11-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2001 Code)
11-2-5: REFUSE DUMPSTER PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to place a refuse
dumpster on any public street or right of way without first obtaining a permit
from the city of East Dubuque.
   B.   Permit Conditions:
      1.   The refuse dumpster permit shall be issued at no cost and shall be
valid for a period of fourteen (14) calendar days. When the initial fourteen
(14) day period has expired, the dumpster shall be permanently removed or a new
permit shall be purchased to allow the dumpster to remain in place. The cost of
the new permit shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) and shall be valid for seven
(7) days. If necessary, additional seven (7) day permits may be purchased, each
for a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). In no case shall a refuse dumpster be
permitted on the public right of way for more than four (4) weeks at a single
address unless approval has been given by the council as an action item on the
agenda.
      2.   The refuse dumpster permit shall be displayed in clear view on the
property for which the permit is issued.
   C.   Placement:
      1.   A refuse dumpster shall only be permitted to occupy public property
if it is not feasible and practical for the dumpster to occupy the private
property to be served by the dumpster.
      2.   The placement of a refuse dumpster on a public street will comply
with the following safety standards. All dumpsters: a) shall be placed as close
to the curb as possible, or, where there is no curb, as close to the edge of
the street as possible, b) shall be placed no closer than twenty feet (20') to
an intersection or fifteen feet (15') to a fire hydrant, c) shall be placed so
not to obstruct vehicular traffic, d) shall not be placed on a public sidewalk
or in any way obstruct pedestrian traffic, e) shall be loaded so no refuse is
protruding beyond the top or sides, and so the area surrounding the dumpster is
kept clean and free of residue and debris, f) shall be clearly marked on each
exterior corner with a reflective barricade.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall prevent a refuse dumpster from being
removed, emptied, and replaced during the permitting period.
   D.   Liability: The permittee assumes all liability and holds harmless the
city against all claims, damages, suits, penalties, fines, liability for injury
or death to persons or loss or damage to property related to the placement of a
dumpster in the public right of way.
   E.   Removal: The city of East Dubuque reserves the right to order a
dumpster removed or moved if it is found to violate any of the aforementioned
standards or otherwise compromises the public health, safety, or general
welfare. Temporary removal may be required to facilitate activities such as
snow removal, street cleaning, public parking, or street improvements. The cost
of removal shall be billed to, and the responsibility of, the permittee.
   F.   Penalty: The penalty for each and every violation of this section shall
be a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first offense and not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for the second offense and each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 13-0212, 2-19-2013)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Compliance Required
11-3-2: Notice Of Excavation; Determination Of Necessity; Bond
11-3-3: Permit Requirements
11-3-4: Restoration Of Excavated Site
11-3-5: Penalty
11-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, dig or otherwise alter or
change the surface of any street or sidewalk in the city, excepting, however,
sidewalks on wholly owned private property, and it shall also be unlawful to
excavate or dig into any of said streets or sidewalks in the city, except those
located on private property, for sewer, water, gas, electric, telephone,
utility or any other purpose, whether it be for installation or repairing,
without first complying with the terms of this chapter. (Ord., 5-6-1958)
11-3-2: NOTICE OF EXCAVATION; DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY; BOND:
   A.   Notice Required; Necessity Determined; Bond Required: Before commencing
any excavating, digging or altering on any of the streets or sidewalks in the
city referred to in section
11-3-1 of this chapter, the person making or causing said excavating, digging
or altering shall first notify the city manager of the type and nature of the
excavating, digging or altering, and the city manager, together with the public
works director, will determine the possible cost of replacing the street or
sidewalk in its original condition; they will then determine the amount of the
bond or deposit, or its equivalent to be filed with the city clerk guaranteeing
that said street or sidewalk or both will be restored in a manner approved by
the city manager. This bond or deposit shall remain in full force and effect
for a period of one year unless released and cancelled by the city manager. The
excavator or person causing excavation to be made shall post the above bond or
deposit with the city clerk before proceeding with any excavation. (Ord., 5-6-
1958; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Use Of Bond By City: In the event it is necessary for the city to make
the proper and necessary repairs to the excavation, the cost thereof shall be
paid out of the proceeds of the bond, the deposit, or the equivalent that was
filed with the city clerk. (Ord., 5-6-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
11-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or
tunnel under any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
city without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the city clerk and shall specify the intended location and purpose of the
excavation.
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for said permit shall be thirty dollars ($30.00).
   D.   Approval: All application for such permit shall be reviewed and
approved by the city manager and/or the city council. (2001 Code)
11-3-4: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED SITE:
The excavator or person causing excavation to be made shall cause the street,
sidewalk or both to be replaced in a satisfactory condition within a reasonable
time after the completion of the excavation. (Ord., 5-6-1958)
11-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-6-1958; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OBSTRUCTION OF RAILROAD CROSSINGS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Adoption Of State Law
11-4-2: Obstruction Of Highway At Grade Crossing Prohibited
11-4-3: Penalty
11-4-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
All provisions of the safety requirements for railroad operations 1 , shall be
hereby made part of this chapter insofar as the provisions of such law pertain
to the county. (Ord. 05-0511, 5-2-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/18c-7402.
11-4-2: OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAY AT GRADE CROSSING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for a rail carrier to permit any train, railroad car or engine
to obstruct public travel at a railroad-highway grade crossing for a period in
excess of ten (10) minutes, except where such train or railroad car is
continuously moving or cannot be moved by reason of circumstances over which
the rail carrier has no reasonable control.
However, no employee acting under the rules or orders of the rail carrier or
its supervisory personnel may be prosecuted for a violation of this section.
(Ord. 05-0511, 5-2-2005)
11-4-3: PENALTY:
Any rail carrier violating section
11-4-2 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and fined is affixed
of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) if the duration of the obstruction is in excess of ten (10)
minutes but no longer than fifteen (15) minutes. If the duration of the
obstruction exceeds fifteen (15) minutes the violation shall be a business
offense and the following fines shall be imposed:
   A.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of fifteen (15) minutes
but no longer than twenty (20) minutes, the fine shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00);
   B.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty (20) minutes
but no longer than twenty five (25) minutes, the fine shall be seven hundred
dollars ($700.00);
   C.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty five (25)
minutes but no longer than thirty (30) minutes, the fine shall be nine hundred
dollars ($900.00);
   D.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty (30) minutes
but no longer than thirty five (35) minutes, the fine shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00);
   E.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty five (35)
minutes, the fine shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus an additional
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each five (5) minutes of obstruction in
excess of thirty five (35) minutes of obstruction. (Ord. 05-0511, 5-2-2005)
TITLE 12
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER, WASTEWATER AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Public Works Department
12-1-2: Combined Waterworks And Wastewater System
12-1-3: Revenues; Accounting; Notices Of Rate Changes
12-1-4: Payment Of Rates And Charges; Delinquencies
12-1-5: Ready-To-Serve Charge
12-1-6: Responsibilities Of Owner
12-1-7: Violations And Penalties
12-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Created; Composition; Jurisdiction: The city has established
a public works department, which is in charge of the waterworks, wastewater and
garbage systems for the city. This department shall consist of such officers,
employees and personnel necessary to perform the functions of these systems.
The public works department and/or designated agents, under the general
direction of the city manager, mayor and/or city council, shall be responsible
for the operation, maintenance and expansion of the municipal waterworks,
wastewater and garbage systems.
   B.   Director Of Public Works:
      1.   Responsibilities Generally: The director of public works shall:
         a.   Be the head of the waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems for
the city and shall have charge and custody of all property pertaining thereto.
         b.   Supervise all employees assigned to these systems and shall be
responsible for the management of the systems and the conduct of its business.
         c.   Be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
title and is hereby authorized to establish such regulations, policies and
procedures as may be necessary for the enforcement of those provisions.
         d.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the city manager,
mayor and/or city council.
      2.   Books And Records:
         a.   The director of public works and/or designated agents shall keep
complete and accurate records of the finances, property and operations of the
waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems. All records shall be available for
inspection by the city manager, the mayor and/or city council at all times.
         b.   The director of public works shall make such reports concerning
the operations and business of the water, sewer and garbage systems as may be
required by the city manager, mayor and/or city council.
      3.   Annual Budget Reports: The director of public works may be required
to submit a recommended annual waterworks, wastewater and garbage budget report
for the following fiscal year to the city manager.
      4.   Recommendations Concerning Employees: The director of public works
shall recommend to the city manager and/or the city council the number and
duties of employees necessary to conduct the business of the waterworks,
wastewater and garbage systems.
   C.   Identification Of Agents And Employees: Agents and employees of the
waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems, whose duties require them to enter
upon private premises, shall be provided with credentials authorized by the
director of public works identifying them as such agents or employees. The
director of public works shall maintain an official list of those authorized to
possess credentials of the department.
   D.   Impersonating Agents Or Employees: No person other than a duly
authorized agent or employee of the public works department shall possess any
credential of the department or in any manner represent himself or herself as
an agent or employee of the department. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-1-2: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM:
The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made and the existing
wastewater system in its entirety, together with all additions, improvements
and extensions that may hereafter be made thereto by the city, are hereby
declared to be a combined system, and said combined waterworks and sewerage
system shall be maintained and operated as a single utility, and charges or
rates shall be established for the use of such combined system, which shall be
reasonable and commensurate with the services performed by said combined
system, and shall be sufficient to maintain, operate, provide an adequate
depreciation fund, and pay the principal and interest on any revenue bonds
which may be issued, which by their terms are made payable from the revenues of
such combined system. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-1-3: REVENUES; ACCOUNTING; NOTICES OF RATE CHANGES:
   A.   Revenues To Be Separate; Delivery To Treasurer: All revenues and monies
derived from the operation of the waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems
shall be deposited in one account of the enterprise fund. All such revenues and
monies shall be held by the city clerk separate and apart from his/her private
funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city, and all of said
sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the city treasurer
not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the city manager or the city
council.
   B.   Enterprise Fund: The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues
from the waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems, and all other funds and
monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to
him/her and deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as an
enterprise fund of the city. The treasurer and/or the city manager shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by provision of
the Illinois municipal code.
   C.   System Of Accounts: The city treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks, wastewater and garbage systems, and at regular annual intervals,
he/she shall cause to be made audit by an independent auditing concern of the
books to show the receipts and disbursements of such systems.
   D.   Annual Audit: The annual audit report shall reflect a combined
waterworks and sewerage fund as described in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, along with a separate waste and rubbish fund for the
garbage system. These funds shall also reflect the revenues and operating
expenses of said services, including a replacement cost, to indicate that said
service charges and capital amounts required under this title do in fact meet
these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the
audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the waterworks and
wastewater systems for the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered wastewater users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
   E.   Notice Of Rates And Charges: Each user will be notified by the city, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to waterworks, wastewater
and garbage services, including the financial information of subsection D of
this section. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-1-4: PAYMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Issuance Of Bills; Collection Of Amounts Due: It shall be the duty of
the city clerk to issue all bills for water, wastewater and garbage use, fees,
charges, and deposits owed to waterworks, wastewater, and garbage services and
to collect such amounts when they become due.
   B.   Forms For Bills: The city clerk shall prepare the forms for water,
wastewater and garbage bills, which forms shall show such information
concerning the rules, regulations and ordinances pertaining to waterworks,
wastewater and garbage services and rates as the City Manager may deem
advisable.
   C.   Application Of Provisions, Regulations, Policies And Procedures: All
users of the services, the occupants thereof and the owners of the premises of
water, wastewater and/or garbage services shall be governed by and subject to
the provisions and conditions of this title and other ordinances of the City in
effect or to become in effect and the regulations, written policies and
procedures established by the City Manager or by appropriate authority.
   D.   Responsibility For Payment; Payment Plan: All users of the combined
waterworks and wastewater systems and/or garbage services shall pay for such
services on the basis of the rates established by the City Council and
applicable to the service supplied by the City and in addition thereto. A
payment plan may be established to the user of the service, the occupant
thereof and/or the owner of the premises before the shutoff date if it has been
deemed acceptable by the appropriate authority.
   E.   Liability For Service: The user of the service, the occupant thereof
and the owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City only upon
condition that the owner of the premises is liable upon default of the user of
the service and is therefore responsible to the City.
   F.   Notice Of Lease Or Sale Of Property:
      1.   Every owner of property served by water, wastewater and/or garbage
services shall notify the City Clerk's Office within ten (10) days after making
any lease or contract of sale of such property. The notice shall include the
name of the tenant or purchaser, the duration of the lease or the period of
contract, and the street address of the property.
      2.   Any owner of any property who fails to comply with the requirements
of subsection F1 of this section shall be liable to the City for payment of the
bills accruing against the premises from the time the tenant or purchaser under
contract entered into possession of the premises. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   G.   Rendition Of Bills; Payment; Failure To Pay: All bills for service
shall be rendered as of the first day of the month (per billing period)
succeeding the period for which the service is billed and shall be payable not
later than the close of business on the fifteenth day of the same month. A ten
percent (10%) penalty charge of the unpaid balance shall be added to all bills
not paid within fifteen (15) days of the date of the billing. When the
fifteenth day of any month shall be a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, then
such bills for service shall be payable on the next succeeding secular day
without any additional penalty. A reminder notice will be sent to the user of
the service, the occupant thereof and/or the owner of the premises notifying
them that the account is past due and delinquent. The user of the service(s)
has ten (10) days from the date of the reminder notice to respond by either
paying the amount owed and/or request a deferred payment plan. (Ord. 99-1208,
12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 17-1014, 10-16-2017)
   H.   Delinquencies; Shut Off Of Services; Liens:
      1.   Delinquent Payments: In the event that the charges for service are
not paid within twenty five (25) days after rendition of the bill for such
service, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent,
and the City Clerk is hereby authorized to notify the Public Works Department
to post a twenty four (24) hour notice on the front door of the said address
listed on the water, sewer and garbage bill, listing amount due and time water
will be disconnected if payment is not made or arranged. A posting fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be charged to the user of the service,
occupant thereof and/or owner of the premises regardless of whether the bill is
paid, whether the water or other said services are about to be paid or whether
the water or other said services have been shut off. No further notice will be
given. A rate of one percent (1%) per month of the unpaid balance or portion
thereof will be charged after thirty (30) days of the date of the billing, plus
a processing fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). Reinstatement of service will not
occur until all past due bills, including the penalties thereon, are paid in
full, together with a twenty five dollar ($25.00) payment fee for reinstating
such services. Services will not occur until a minimum of twenty four (24)
hours after shutoff has occurred to the premises and all past due bills have
been paid in full. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 08-0805, 8-4-2008; Ord.
17-1014, 10-16-2017)
      2.   Shut Off Of Services: If the City is unable to find the water
shutoff valve or if water shutoff valve fails to operate or does not exist, the
City will schedule to have water or sewer service dug up, which would then be
clamped, capped or any other mechanism to shut off service. The owner of the
premises will incur the cost of such actions, plus twenty five dollars
($25.00). Service will not resume until these costs have been paid and the
owner of the premises installs a visible and operable shutoff valve or any
other mechanism to shutoff service. The owner of the premises must notify JULIE
forty eight (48) hours prior to digging and installing an operable valve.
      3.   Terminating Service To Connections Serving Multiple Customers:
Whenever two (2) or more premises are supplied by one service connection to the
public mains, the failure on the part of any one of the owners or occupants of
such premises to comply with the requirements of this title shall be cause for
the City to shut off the supply of water to such connection, without any
liability whatsoever. Before shutting off any service connection serving two
(2) or more premises, the City shall notify all customers affected by such
shutoff, and those customers shall have the right to continue service by paying
the amount owed to the City and/or correcting the violations for which service
was to be terminated.
      4.   Changing Premises; Restrictions On Service To New Premises: If the
user of the service or the occupant thereof moves from one premises to another
premises and leaves behind an unpaid water, sewer and/or garbage account, the
user of the service and/or the occupant thereof will be denied service until
the account is paid in full and a hookup fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
has been collected for the new account.
      5.   Resolving Delinquencies: A person who is the user of the service,
occupant thereof and/or the owner of the premises shall have ten (10) days from
the date of the reminder notice to respond by either paying the amount owed to
the City, correcting the dispute, or requesting a formal hearing. If such
person requests a formal hearing, it must be done in writing to the City
Manager. The written request for a formal hearing shall outline the user of the
service, occupant thereof and/or the owner of the premises in dispute with the
City. The City Manager shall notify the person of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The decision by the appropriate authority should constitute as the
final decision.
      6.   Delinquencies A Lien: If the account remains unpaid after one
hundred eighty (180) days, the City Manager and/or designated agents shall file
a lien notice of delinquency against the property and/or shall file other
action(s) that may be deemed appropriate by the City Council. This lien shall
be in the amount of the unpaid water, sewer and/or garbage account as incurred,
as well as any subsequent charges, penalties and costs for placing and removing
the lien. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   I.   Returned Check Charges:
      1.   If a check has been returned for nonsufficient funds, a charge of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or current bank fee will be added to
the amount due. Same fee applies when a check has been written on a closed or
nonexistent account. (Ord. 17-1014, 10-16-2017)
      2.   The charge for a returned check, plus the amount originally due,
shall be due immediately upon notification. Water service shall be
discontinued, as provided elsewhere in this title, if the total amount due is
not paid within five (5) working days when notice is served in person, or ten
(10) working days after the postmark when notice is served by mail.
      3.   The City Clerk may require the amounts due to be paid in cash,
cashier's check, or money order after a check has been returned. (Ord. 99-1208,
12-6-1999)
      4.   Failure to reconcile payment due will terminate service until the
account is paid in full. (Ord. 17-1014, 10-16-2017)
12-1-5: READY TO SERVE CHARGE:
   A.   Charge Assessed: A "ready to serve" charge shall be assessed and billed
to the owner of every property within the City, and the surrounding areas the
City serves, that has reasonable access to waterworks and wastewater public
mains.
   B.   Purpose Of Charge: The purpose of a ready to serve charge is to provide
for proper maintenance of water and wastewater public mains in all cases where
service is available whether or not actual connection is made and the service
is actually used.
   C.   Periodic Review Of Charge: The ready to serve charge will be examined
periodically by the City Council or by appropriate authority and revised to
keep pace with the increasing cost of providing water and wastewater services
to the properties. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-1-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER:
   A.   Service Connection And Line:
      1.   The owner of the premises shall install, maintain, repair and be
financially responsible for all of his/her water and/or wastewater service
connection and line from the public main to their property. This includes, but
is not limited to, the costs for freezing service line, stoppage by roots and/
or settling of trench. This also includes, but is not limited to, the City's
costs associated with forced labor, equipment time, and material expenditures.
      2.   If the owner of the premises abandons his/her service connection,
he/she shall be financially responsible for the abandoned connection.
   B.   Service Shutoff And Valve Box:
      1.   The owner of the premises shall install, maintain, repair and be
financially responsible for his/her service shutoff and valve box on their
service line.
      2.   The service shutoff and valve box shall be of standard design
approved by the Public Works Director.
      3.   The shutoff and valve box shall be placed in the public right-of-way
and be operable at all times. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-1-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision in
this title, except section
12-4-6 of this title shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The City may revoke any permit of this title as a
result of any violation of any provision of this title.
   C.   Liability For Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this title shall become liable to the City by reasons of such violations.
   D.   Penalties: Any person convicted of a violation of this title shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first
offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense and seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense thereafter. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-
6-1999)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
12-2-1: General Requirements And Regulations
12-2-2: Water User Regulations
12-2-3: Meters
12-2-4: Rates, Fees And Charges
12-2-5: Groundwater As Potable Water Supply Prohibited
12-2-6: Access To Records
12-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obstructing; Damaging Waterworks System:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, to obstruct
access to, tamper with, or damage any facility or appurtenance of the city
water system.
      2.   Any person who damages any water system facility or appurtenance in
any manner shall be responsible to the city for the cost of any and all
replacements or repairs made necessary by such damage. In addition, the person
responsible for any damage to the water system shall be responsible for any and
all damage to other persons resulting from the damage to the water system.
   B.   Operation Of Valves, Shutoff Valves And Hydrants:
      1.   No person not duly authorized by the director of public works shall
operate or open any valve belonging to the city water system or the shutoff
valve of any service connected to the waterworks system. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-
1999)
      2.   No person not duly authorized by the director of public works shall
operate, open, or tamper with any fire hydrant connected to the city waterworks
system.
      3.   Any member of the East Dubuque fire department, or their designee,
shall be duly authorized to operate fire hydrants connected to the city water
system for the purpose of fire readiness and extinguishing a fire. (Ord. 12-
0303, 3-6-2012)
   C.   Specifications:
      1.   The director of public works shall prepare specifications for all
materials used and all work performed in connection with the city waterworks
system.
      2.   The specifications prepared by the director of public works shall be
placed on file for public knowledge and information at the public works
department. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
      3.   Any licensed plumber performing any work in connection with the city
water system shall perform such work and use materials in full compliance with
the specifications prepared by the director of public works. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-
6-2012)
   D.   Private Water Supply: Where the public water supply is available for
use, no private wells shall be constructed. In instances where private wells
exist and are still in use, the following shall apply:
      1.   If the private well is determined to be unsafe, unfit, poses a
health risk and/or fails to comply with the state pollution control board,
state environmental protection agency, United States environmental protection
agency or county health department water quality standards, the well shall be
condemned and its use replaced with the public water supply.
      2.   If a private well fails through normal use, the person upon whose
property the well is located shall replace such well with the public water
supply.
      3.   All proposed private well installations within the jurisdiction of
the waterworks system shall be approved or disapproved by the director of
public works and/or designated agents.
      4.   In no case shall an existing or proposed private well be cross
connected to the public water supply.
      5.   In all matters involving private wells, the judgment of the director
of public works and/or designated agents shall govern the use of such within
the jurisdiction of the waterworks system. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-2-2: WATER USER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Users Subject To Regulations: Every user of water from the city
waterworks system shall be governed by and subject to the provisions and
conditions of this title and other ordinances of the city, in effect or to
become in effect, and the regulations, policies and procedures established by
the city manager and/or director of public works to implement the same.
   B.   Discontinuing Service For Violations: The director of public works
shall have the responsibility and the authority to order termination of city
water service to any premises where a violation of or neglect or refusal to
comply with this title is not corrected within five (5) days after a notice
stating the intent to terminate service and the reason therefor has been served
on the premises. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   C.   Department's Right Of Entry: Agents and employees of the public works
department shall, in the performance of their duly assigned duties and upon
presentation of proper credentials identifying them, have free access, between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M., or such
other times as may be required by emergency, to any and all premises supplied
with city water.
   D.   Connection To System:
      1.   Application For Connection: Any person desiring to make any
connection with the city water system, or to use water therefrom, shall first
make application at city hall upon the applicable form. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-
2012)
      2.   Permit Required; Multiple Service: A permit must be obtained for
each connection to the water system. Each connection shall serve a single
building, residence, premises, or place, except where specifically allowed by
the director of public works.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit; Requirements:
         a.   After an applicant for water has complied with all of the
provisions of this title and the other ordinances of the city, the director of
public works shall issue a permit authorizing the connection to be made and
specifying the location and size thereof. The connection, from the public water
main through the meter setting, must be constructed by a licensed plumber.
(Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
         b.   If any work is to be performed in a public right of way, a permit
must be obtained and a bond furnished to the city with adequate security in the
amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) guaranteeing the
restoration of the street, where an excavation is being made, to its original
condition. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
         c.   The plumber shall be solely responsible for the work performed
and for any and all damages resulting from such work.
      4.   Inspection; Approval Of Connection; Plumbing:
         a.   Every connection to the city water system and all plumbing served
by such connection shall be subject to inspection, supervision, and approval by
the director of public works and/or an authorized agent of the director of
public works, and shall be constructed in compliance with specifications
prepared by the director of public works. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
         b.   Any licensed plumber intending to make a connection to the city
water system shall notify the director of public works in advance of the date
and time the connection will be made.
         c.   After a connection to the city water system has been made, the
licensed plumber who made such connection shall report its exact location in
plan and profile, its size, and its materials of construction to the director
of public works. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
      5.   Connections For Multiple Premises:
         a.   Where a service connection is intended to supply two (2) or more
distinct premises or apartments, a separate and distinct shutoff valve must be
provided for each premises or apartment, located outside of the same.
         b.   No service connection shall supply more than one property. (Ord.
99-1208, 12-6-1999)
         c.   If the property owner is responsible for paying the utility bill
only one meter is required. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   E.   Prerequisites To Turning Water On:
      1.   Water shall not be turned on for use in any premises or property
except upon the order of the director of public works, who shall not issue such
order unless subsection D1 of this section has been made and all amounts owed
to the city have been paid in full.
      2.   Except for purposes of testing their work, plumbers are strictly
prohibited from turning water on to any service connection without the express
order and permission of the director of public works. After completing any test
of their work, plumbers must turn off water to a service connection which was
turned on to perform the test. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   F.   Location Of Private Hydrants: (Rep. by Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   G.   Consumers Supplying Water To Others: No owner or occupant of any
property to which city water is supplied shall supply water to other persons or
properties.
   H.   Right To Restrict Water Use:
      1.   The mayor and city council shall have authority to restrict the use
of water when, in their opinion, the public exigencies require it.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the city manager and the director of the
public works to advise the mayor and council of the adequacy of the water
supply to satisfy the demand for water. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   I.   Conditions For Extraordinary Use: For purposes not elsewhere specified
in this chapter, and for peculiar and extraordinary purposes, the use of water
shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Application for such water use shall be made to city hall. (Ord. 12-
0303, 3-6-2012)
      2.   Such water use shall be subject to approval by the city manager,
mayor and/or city council.
      3.   All water used shall be metered by the public works department.
(Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
      4.   Such water used shall be billed monthly or as often as deemed
necessary by the city manager. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
      5.   The charges for such use shall include, but not limited to, a
service charge for each calendar year or portion thereof, plus all metered
consumption at twice the regular rates in effect (see subsection
12-2-4D of this chapter).
      6.   The city manager may draw up the procedures governing the sale of
water under this subsection.
   J.   City Not Liable For Damages:
      1.   All connections to the city water system and all water used
therefrom shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury resulting
from the breakage of or leakage from any pipe or appurtenances connected with
the system, nor for any interruption of the supply for any reason whatsoever.
      2.   To the extent permitted by conditions and the demands of time, the
city shall notify customers in advance of interruptions of water service. (Ord.
99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   K.   Water Service Freeze Up Policies:
      1.   The property owner is responsible for meter freeze up and repair.
(Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
12-2-3: METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required: All water taken from the city water system
shall pass through meters, to which end, all service connections shall be
equipped with meters located before any points of water use or withdrawal.
(Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   B.   Installation: All meters shall be installed by a licensed plumber and
will be inspected by a duly authorized representative of the public works
department. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   C.   Location; Accessibility:
      1.   All meters shall be located as close as possible to the point where
the service pipe enters the building or premises.
      2.   All meters shall be placed where they are readily accessible to the
public works department for inspection, readings, maintenance and replacement.
No obstructions shall be created which interfere with or diminish the
accessibility of any meter.
   D.   Protection:
      1.   No meter shall be set in a place where groundwater or surface water
can rise and cover it.
      2.   Meters shall be connected to the adjoining pipes by square faced
union or flange joints, and the adjoining pipes must be horizontal.
      3.   A valve shall be installed on each side of every meter, and
provision shall be made on the downstream side of the meter to drain the pipes
and meter.
   E.   Disturbing Meters: After a meter has been installed, no person not duly
authorized by the director of public works shall remove, repair, interfere
with, or in any way disturb the meter.
   F.   Costs; Ownership:
      1.   The cost of every water meter and its installation shall be paid by
the applicant for water service and shall constitute the meter fee.
      2.   The public works department shall retain ownership of all meters,
and all repairs and replacements made necessary by normal wear shall be done at
the expense of the department. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
      3.   Repairs or replacements of water meters made necessary by freezing,
hot water, tampering or theft shall be made at the expense of the tenant or
property owner and will include labor cost(s). (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   G.   Damage; Notice Of Defect:
      1.   No person shall injure, deface, mar, destroy, or in any manner
interfere with any water meter.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the owner and/or occupant of any premises
served with city water promptly to notify the city of any defect in the meter
serving such premises. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   H.   Customers To Read Meters: (Rep. by Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   I.   Unread Meters: Whenever a meter in the active service of the city
remains unread for six (6) consecutive months, such shall constitute a
violation of the requirements of this chapter, and the premises served may be
subject to termination of water services. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   J.   Metering For Multiple Premises: (Rep. by Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
   K.   Inaccurate Meters; Charges Estimated: Whenever any meter, for any
reason whatsoever, fails to register accurately the volume of water passing
through it, the consumer shall be billed for the volume of water used during
the corresponding time of the previous year under like conditions. If no record
of the previous year exists, it shall then be the duty of the city manager and/
or designated agents to estimate as best possible the volume of water used
during the time the meter failed to register accurately, and the consumer shall
pay the amount so estimated by city manager and/or designated agents. Each
property owner will be eligible for up to one credit per year. (Ord. 12-0303,
3-6-2012)
   L.   Metering For Professional Sprinkling Systems: In cases where a
residential home has a professional sprinkler system installed, an additional
meter may be installed on the service connection for the metering of the
professional sprinkler system at the property owner's expense, subject to the
approval of the public works director and city manager. Furthermore, all water
use registered by this meter will be charged to the owner of the property for
water only, not sewer. (Ord. 02-0423, 4-15-2002)
   M.   Metering For A Pool: In cases where a residential home has a pool, an
additional meter may be installed on the service connection for the metering of
the pool at the property owner's expense, subject to the approval of the public
works director and city manager. Furthermore, all water use registered by this
meter will be charged to the owner of the property for water only, not sewer.
It would be suggested for the property owner to arrange a convenient time with
the fire department or public works director to fill the pool and the property
owner will be billed. (Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012)
12-2-4: RATES, FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Construction Fee: The construction fee shall apply to new services
installed through the public works department, and shall equal the cost to the
city of any such installation or connection plus an additional fifteen percent
(15%) for administration. The construction fee shall be the responsibility of
the applicant for water service. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   B.   Turn On Fee: The turn on fee shall apply to any new service turn on and
shall be as follows:
 
New Service Size   Turn On Fee
(Inches)
1 inch or smaller  $ 250.00
Larger than 1 inch 500.00
 
The turn on fee shall be the responsibility of the applicant for water service.
   C.   Meter Fee: The meter fee shall apply to any new service activated and
shall be paid by the applicant for water. The fee shall equal the cost of the
new meter ($250.00), plus fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Charges For Extraordinary Use:
      1.   The service charge per calendar year or portion thereof shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) (see subsection
12-2-2I5 of this chapter).
      2.   The consumption charge for water used shall be double the regular
rates in effect (see subsection
12-2-2I5 of this chapter). (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
      3.   Water Capital Improvement Fund: There shall be and there is hereby
established a water capital improvement fund of twelve dollars and ten cents
($12.10) per month assessed to all users of the combined water and sewer
systems, effective May 1, 2024.
   E.   Meter Testing Fee:
      1.   When a customer requests that a meter be tested, such customer shall
pay two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for meter testing.
      2.   If, as a result of the test, the meter is found to err against the
customer by more than five percent (5%), the meter testing fee shall be
refunded.
      3.   Meter tests initiated by the public works department shall be
performed at no charge to the customer. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
   F.   Freeze Up Charges: Where applicable, the following charges shall be
paid by customers who have frozen pipes or meters:
      1.   Frozen and/or broken meter, per occurrence, cost of a new meter,
plus fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Service call to inspect the replacement of meter, per occurrence, is
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   G.   
      1.   Within City Limits:
         a.   Water Rate: A charge of six dollars forty-nine cents ($6.49) per
one thousand (1,000) gallons shall apply to all premises located within the
corporate limits of the City.
         b.   Minimum Charge: A minimum charge of twelve dollars ninety-eight
cents ($12.98) per month shall be applied to all users whose water consumption
does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons per month.
         c.   Ready To Serve Charge: A charge of twelve dollars ninety-eight
cents ($12.98) per month shall be applied to all ready to serve users.
      2.   Outside City Limits:
      a.   Water Rate: A charge of twelve dollars ninety-eight cents ($12.98)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons shall apply to all premises and users outside
the corporate limits of the City.
      b.   Minimum Charge: A minimum charge of twenty-five dollars ninety-six
cents ($25.96) per month shall be applied to all users whose water consumption
does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons per month.
      c.   Ready To Serve Charge: A charge of twenty-five dollars ninety-six
cents ($25.96) per month shall be applied to all ready to serve users.
   H.   Income Based Rate: Any resident residing within the corporate
boundaries of East Dubuque is eligible for a 20% discount for water consumption
and $2.50 off Capital Fund based on their income. The following income rates
are established based on household size. Proof of income to be verified by
submission of most recent federal income tax return.
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
1              $39,450
2              $45,100
3              $50,750
4              $56,350
5              $60,850
6              $65,350
7              $69,900
8              $74,400
Add $6,000 for each household member over 8
 
   HUD 50% of Household, May 1, 2024.
   I.   Bulk Water Sales Rates: The City may, from time to time, allow for the
sale of bulk water for the purpose of construction or commercial activity. In
such case, consumers requesting to purchase bulk water from the City shall
submit an application at City Hall and pay the applicable fee. Users that
purchase water in bulk from the city shall pay the following as per city
ordinance.
      1.   Hook up fee as follows:
         a.   During normal business hours Monday through Friday between 7:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m. a hook up fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
         b.   After hours, weekends, and holidays a hook up fee of
      2.   Volume Charge of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars per 1000 gallons.
(Ord. 12-0303, 3-6-2012; amd. Ord. 12-0725, 7-16-2012; Ord. 19-0405, 4-1-2019;
Ord. 20-0709, 7-13-2020; Ord. 21-0906, 9-7-2021; Ord. 21-1027, 10-18-2021; Ord.
22-0813, 8-8-2022; Ord. 24-0435, 4-29-2024)
12-2-5: GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
 
               Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
PERSON:        limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock
               company, trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other
               legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns.
               Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
POTABLE WATER: not limited to, water used for drinking, swimming, washing
               dishes, or preparing foods.
 
   B.   Use of Groundwater Prohibited: The use or attempt to use groundwater
from within the corporate limits of the city of East Dubuque, Jo Daviess
County, Illinois, as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly
excludes the city of East Dubuque, Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense,
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense and seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense thereafter.
   D.   Memorandum Of Understanding: The mayor of the city of East Dubuque is
hereby authorized and directed to enter into a memorandum of understanding with
the Illinois environmental protection agency (“Illinois EPA”) in which the city
of East Dubuque assumes responsibility for tracking all sites that have
received no further remediation determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying
the Illinois EPA of changes to this section, and taking certain precautions
when siting public potable water supply wells. (Ord. 08-0221, 2-18-2008; amd.
Ord. 23-0305, 3-6-2023)
12-2-6: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the United-States
Environmental Protection Agency or their authorized representatives shall have
access to any books, documents, papers and records of the City which are
applicable to the City system of user charges for the purpose of making audits,
examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the
terms of the special and general conditions to any state grants and to ensure
compliance with the terms of the federal regulations and conditions of any
federal grant. (Ord. 21-0527, 5-17-2021)
CHAPTER 3
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS CONTROL
SECTION:
12-3-1: Compliance With State Plumbing Code; Backflow Prevention Device
12-3-2: Approval Of Other Water Sources
12-3-3: Surveys And Investigations
12-3-4: Entry Powers
12-3-5: Discontinuance And Restoration Of Water Service
12-3-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
12-3-7: Cross Connection Control Rules And Regulations; Definitions
12-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PLUMBING CODE; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE:
All plumbing connected to the public water supply system shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of
the director of public works, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the director of
public works will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved
device immediately. The water customer shall, at their own expense, install
such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing
code, Illinois environmental protection agency and local regulations. (Ord. 10-
1213, 12-20-2010)
12-3-2: APPROVAL OF OTHER WATER SOURCES:
No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply may enter
the supply or distribution system, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the director of public works and the Illinois environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 10-1213, 12-20-2010)
12-3-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the director of public works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the director of public works shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001)
12-3-4: ENTRY POWERS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the presence
or absence of cross connections, and the director of public works or his
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
public works director any information which he may request regarding the piping
system or systems of water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the director of
public works, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 10-1213, 12-20-2010)
12-3-5: DISCONTINUANCE AND RESTORATION OF WATER SERVICE:
The director of public works is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be
effected when the director of public works is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party, can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply,
provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the director of public works or the
Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the public water supply, the public works director, or his agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice. (Ord. 10-1213, 12-20-2010)
12-3-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-
2001)
12-3-7: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL RULES AND REGULATIONS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems. (Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001)
   B.   Application Of Provisions: These rules and regulations shall apply to
all premises served by the public potable water supply system. (Ord. 01-0204,
2-5-2001; amd. Ord. 10-1213, 12-20-2010)
   C.   City Of East Dubuque Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be
responsible for protection of the public water supply system from contamination
due to backflow or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water
service connection. If, in the judgment of the director of public works or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the director of public works
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection G4d of this section for a period of at least five (5)
years. The director of public works may require the consumer to submit a cross
connection inspection report to the public works department to assist in
determining whether or not service line protection will be required. All cross
connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross connection control device
inspector certified by the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 10-
1213, 12-20-2010)
   D.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of these regulations:
    AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency, and in particular the
division of public water supplies of the agency.
   AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the research
foundation for cross connection control of the University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: A device designed to admit atmospheric pressure
into a piping system whenever a vacuum exists on the upstream side of such
device.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system on or available to the premises
other than the public water supply system and includes the water supplied by
the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells, lakes, or
streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over which
the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACK SIPHONAGE: Backflow resulting from negative pressures in the
distributing pipes of a potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   CHECK VALVE: A self-closing device which is designed to permit the flow of
fluids in one direction and to close if there is a reversal of flow.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other. "Direct cross connection" means a
cross connection formed when a water system is physically joined to a source of
unknown or unsafe substance. "Indirect cross connection" means a cross
connection through which an unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or
otherwise introduced into a safe potable water source.
   DEPARTMENT AND OFFICIALS: The public works department, the waterworks
department, and the director of public works or the duly authorized agents of
the municipality.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   DRAIN: Any pipe which carries wastewater or waterborne wastes in a building
drainage system.
   FIXTURE, PLUMBING: Any arrangement of plumbing, including piping and
fixtures, whereby a cross connection is created.
   FLOOD LEVEL RIM: The top edge of a receptacle from which water overflows.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING: Any arrangement of plumbing, including piping and
fixtures, whereby a cross-connection is created.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
   OUTLET: The open end of a water supply pipe through which the water is
discharged into a plumbing fixture.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge
of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system, five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance, organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological, in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
administrative code 604 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUIDS: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited
to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      2.   Process waters;
      3.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
         4. Cooling waters;
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation streams;
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. The city of East Dubuque is the legal custodian for the Frentress and
East Dubuque water supply systems.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together and an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing data of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   VACUUM: Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
   VACUUM BREAKER: A device designed to prevent the creation or formation of a
vacuum by admitting air at atmospheric pressure into a pipe.
   VACUUM BREAKER, NONPRESSURE TYPE: A vacuum breaker not designed to be
subjected to static line pressure.
   VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE TYPE: A vacuum breaker designed to operate under
conditions of static line pressure.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE: Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE: Water free from contaminants in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its bacteriological, chemical and
radiological quality shall conform with the requirement of federal and state
drinking water regulations and with any regulations of the county health
department.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001; amd. Ord. 10-1213, 12-20-2010)
   E.   Description Of Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
      2.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the public works director up
to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
water supply distribution system.
      4.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
      5.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the
facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public
water supply distribution system to points of use.
   F.   Cross Connection Prohibited:
      1.   Connections between public potable water systems and other systems
or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited; except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      2.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency. There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
   G.   Surveys And Investigations:
      1.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
      2.   On request by the director of public works, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems of water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the director of public works
for the verification of information submitted by the consumer inspection to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross connection inspection results.
(Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001)
      3.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 320/3
(1). (Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
         a.   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
         b.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
         c.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include: 1) date of
installation; 2) date of each test; 3) name and approval number of person
performing the test; 4) test results; 5) repairs or servicing required; 6)
repairs and date completed; and 7) service performed and date completed.
   H.   Where Protection Is Required:
      1.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890, and the agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving
premises, where in the judgment of the director of public works, actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the public works director and the
source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
         b.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the public works director.
         c.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the public works director and/or the cross- connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      3.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890, and the agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving,
but not necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
public works director determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
         Car washes.
         Chemical plants.
         Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
         Food or beverage processing plants.
         Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
         Laboratories.
         Metal plating industries.
         Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
         Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
         Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
   I.   Type Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection required under subsection H of this section
shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         b.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RPZ) shall be
installed where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a
substance that could cause a system or health hazard.
         c.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      2.   The type of protection required under subsection H of this section
shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device.
      3.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
         a.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals.
         b.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
         c.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable water source; or water
can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
         d.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      4.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
   J.   Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules
and regulations shall be approved by the research foundation for cross-
connection control of the University of Southern California, American water
works association, American society of sanitary engineering, or American
national standards institute or certified by the national sanitation foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industry specification.
      2.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer
of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
   K.   Inspection And Maintenance:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer's instructions:
         a.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
         b.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
         c.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
(5) days.
      2.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include: a) date of
installation; b) date of each test or visual inspection; c) name and approval
number of person performing the test or visual inspection; d) test results; e)
repairs or servicing required; f) repairs and date completed; and g) servicing
performed and date completed.
      5.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay as required by this subsection.
      6.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
public works director.
   L.   Booster Pumps:
      1.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the director
of public works, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
   M.   Violations:
      1.   The public works director shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the public
works director, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by this section is not
installed and maintained in working order.
      2.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the public works director,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
      3.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the public works director.
      4.   Neither the city, the public works director, or their agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
      5.   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross- connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
      6.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
      7.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violations, whether the
same was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 01-0204, 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER SERVICE
SECTION:
12-4-1: Definitions
12-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
12-4-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
12-4-4: Building Sewers And Connections
12-4-5: Discharges Into Public System
12-4-6: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
12-4-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
12-4-8: Rates, Fees And Charges
12-4-9: Access To Records
12-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended,
(public law 95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The city council of the city of East Dubuque.
City: The city of East Dubuque.
NPDES Permit: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements associated by
the administrator, or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment of
the federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
Person: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined) sewer system, even though these sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground water or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: Any dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user: "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process, or from the development, recovery or processing of
any natural resource, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average work day; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste, a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuant authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen (17) pounds of
BOD and twenty two (22) pounds of suspended solids.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
Wastewater Facilities: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all the houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the city, are hereby required at their
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within two hundred feet
(200') of the property line. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-4-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection
12-4-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the city council.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the city clerk, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed
necessary by the city council.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
      4.   Effect Of Permit: A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the city.
   C.   Inspections: The public works director and/or his designated agents
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city council when the work
is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of
written notice by the city council.
   D.   Construction Specifications; Lot Requirements; Drainage:
      1.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state private
sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and with the state environmental
protection agency.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      3.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, as provided in subsection
12-4-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter within sixty (60) days, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned
and filled with suitable material.
   F.   Responsibility For Private System: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and
at no expense to the city.
   G.   Other Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the local or state health officials. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
12-4-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city
manager or public works director.
      2.   Classes Of Building Sewer Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits:
         a.   For residential, wastewater service; and
         b.   To commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
wastewater service.
      3.   Permit Application; Required Information: The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the city manager or public works
director.
      4.   Fees: A permit and inspection fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
      5.   Conditions Of Permit; Issuance:
         a.   The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must
provide information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics,
and type of activity.
         b.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer
connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers Required; Exception: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, that
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the public works director and/or designated agents, to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Materials And Methods: The size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American society of testing materials,
water pollution control federation manual of practice no. 9, and standard
specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois shall apply.
   E.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection H1 of this section and discharged to
the building sewer.
   F.   Connections To Public Sewer: The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the American society of testing
materials, water pollution control federation manual of practice no. 9, and
standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the public works
director and/or designated agents before installation.
   G.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   H.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the public works director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the public works director and/or designated agents.
   J.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-4-5: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the city council. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the city
council, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the city council, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability
of these waters, the city council will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32 and 150°F) (0
and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the public works director and/or designated agents.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the public works director and/or designated agents for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the public works director and/or designated agents as necessary,
after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state,
federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the public works director
and/or designated agents in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as
Hg at any time except as permitted by the public works director and/or
designated agents in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.2 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the public works director and/or designated agents in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined herein.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the public
works director and/or designated agents may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the public works
director and/or designated agents may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection G4 of this section.
If the city council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city council, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   D.   Interceptors: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the public works director and/or designated agents,
they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease
in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the public works director and/or designated agents and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   E.   Pretreatment: Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   F.   Industrial Users: Each industry shall be required to install a control
manhole and, when required by the public works director and/or designated
agents, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   G.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses:
      1.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this title and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
      3.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this title shall be determined
in accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories manual
of laboratory methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
      4.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with section
12-4-8 of this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are
in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system. (Ord.
99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-4-6: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 99-1208,
12-6-1999)
12-4-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers:
      1.   Public works director and/or designated agents, the Illinois
environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The public works director and/or designated agents bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. This shall include access to the
grinder pump stations owned by the city.
   B.   Limitations On Information Requested: The public works director and/or
designated agents shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   C.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A1 of this section, the public works
director and/or designated agents, the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city
shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in subsection
12-4-5G of this chapter. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999)
12-4-8: RATES, FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city
shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, applicable surcharges and local capital cost charge composed of a
debt service charge and a capital improvement charge.
      1.   Reserved.
      2.   Sewer Capital Fund: The capital improvement charge is levied on all
users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the
sewage treatment works. The capital improvement charge is computed by
apportioning the annual amount to be accrued as a fixed charge of twelve
dollars ten cents ($ 12.10) per month.
      3.   Wastewater Maintenance Fee:
         a.   An account is established for the deposit of monies for the
purpose of purchasing equipment, capital improvements to facilities, land
acquisition, grant matching funds, major repairs to equipment, making payments
on lease/purchase debt agreements or similar debt instruments and other
qualifying capital improvement expenditures for the city of East Dubuque sewer
utility as listed below. The money will come directly from the sewer utility
capital improvement fee.
         b.   There shall be and there is hereby established a wastewater
maintenance fee of nineteen dollars ninety-seven cents ($19.97) per month
assessed to all users of the combined sewer and water system.
      4.   Basic User Charge:
         a.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
            (1)   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred five milligrams per liter (205 mg/l).
            (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred sixty five
milligrams per liter (265 mg/l).
         b.   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement (OM&R) and shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to
be treated.
            (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
            (3)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs to each user class by volume, suspended solids and
BOD.
            (4)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended
solids and BOD.
            (5)   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
sewage strength.
            (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per one thousand (1,000)
gallons in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      5.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters
exceed the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (205 mg/L) and SS (265 mg/L).
The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the three hundred milligrams per
liter (300 mg/L) and four hundred fifty milligrams per liter (450 mg/L)
concentration for BOD and SS respectively. Subsection E2 of this section
specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
      6.   Adequacy: The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be
reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the
City in their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs.
      7.   Notification: The users of wastewater treatment services will be
notified on May 1 of each calendar year, in conjunction with a regular bill, of
the rate and that portion of the user charges, which are attributable to the
wastewater treatment operation, maintenance and replacement. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-
6-1999; amd. Ord. 16-0507, 5-2-2016)
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public water works
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain a water meter as described in section
12-2-3 of this title.
      2.   Other devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the City Manager, the Public Works Director and/or designated
agents if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water
consumption records. These devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the City Council.
   C.   Turn On Fee: The turn on fee shall apply to any new service turn on and
shall be as follows:
 
New Service Size   Turn On Fee
1 inch or smaller  $ 250.00
Larger than 1 inch $500.00
 
The turn on fee shall be the responsibility of the applicant for water service.
   D.   Wastewater Rates: The charge for wastewater shall be billed in the
following scale. All accounts shall be billed at the rates listed in the
following rate schedule, and such rates are to be effective October 1, 2021:
      1.   Within City Limits:
         a.   Wastewater Rate: A charge of ten dollars thirty-one cents
($10.31) per one thousand (1,000) gallons shall apply to all premises located
within the corporate limits of the City.
         b.   Minimum Charge: A minimum charge of twenty dollars sixty-one
cents ($20.61) per month shall be applied to all users whose wastewater
consumption does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons per month.
         c.   Ready To Serve Charge: A charge of twenty dollars sixty-one cents
($20.61) per month shall be applied to all ready to serve users.
         d.   Flat Rate Sewer: All nonmetered users of the wastewater
facilities shall pay a minimum flat rate charge of eighty-two dollars fifty
cents ($82.50) per month adequate to cover the costs of sewer capital fund
charge, the minimum service charge, the wastewater maintenance fee, and the
basic user rate of Ten dollars thirty-one cents ($10.31) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons. The flat rate charge will allow a maximum six thousand (6,000)
gallons per month.
      2.   Outside City Limits:
         a.   Wastewater Rate: A charge of twenty dollars sixty-one cents
($20.61) per one thousand (1,000) gallons shall apply to all premises and users
outside the corporate limits of the City.
         b.   Minimum Charge: A minimum charge of forty-one dollars twenty-
three cents ($41.23) per month shall be applied to all users whose wastewater
consumption does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons per month.
         c.   Ready To Serve Charge: A charge of forty-one dollars twenty-three
cents ($41.23) per month shall be applied to all ready to serve users.
         d.   Flat Rate Sewer: All nonmetered users of the wastewater
facilities shall pay a minimum flat rate charge of one hundred sixty-five
dollars ($165.00) per month adequate to cover the costs of the minimum accrual
capital cost charge, the minimum service charge, the wastewater maintenance
fee, and the basic user rate of forty-one dollars twenty-three cents ($41.23)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons. The flat rate charge will allow a maximum six
thousand (6,000) gallons per month.
   E.   Surcharge Rate And Computation:
      1.   The rates of surcharges for BODs and SS shall be as follows:
 
Per pound of BOD $0.40
Per pound of SS  0.25
 
      2.   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the City and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
   F.   Income Based Rate: Any resident residing within the corporate
boundaries of East Dubuque is eligible for a 20% discount for wastewater
consumption and $2.50 off Capital Fund based on their income. The following
income rates are established based on household size. Proof of income to be
verified by submission of most recent federal income tax return.
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
1              $39,450
2              $45,100
3              $50,750
4              $56,350
5              $60,850
6              $65,350
7              $69,900
8              $74,400
Add $6,000 for each household member over 8
 
   HUD 50% of Household, May 1, 2024.
(Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 16-0507, 5-2-2016; Ord. 19-0406, 4-1-2019;
Ord. 20-0710, 7-13-2020; Ord. 21-0905, 9-7-2021; Ord. 21-1026, 10-18-2021; Ord.
24-0434, 4-29-2024)
12-4-9: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The USEPA and IEPA or their authorized representatives shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the City which are applicable to the
utility of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State grant or the
Federal regulations and conditions of the Federal grant. (Ord. 99-1208, 12-6-
1999)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE SERVICE
SECTION:
12-5-1: Definitions
12-5-2: Garbage Collection Contract
12-5-3: Yard Waste
12-5-4: Collection Rates
12-5-5: Billing
12-5-6: Container Requirements
12-5-7: Recycling
12-5-8: Depositing Garbage Prohibited
12-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                     Building materials and demolition waste are not included
BUILDING MATERIALS:  in garbage pick up. Arrangements for collection of these
                     materials can be made through any waste contractor.
                     Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
GARBAGE:             and consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage
                     and sale of produce.
                     The contractor with whom the city has signed a contract
LICENSED CONTRACTOR: for the collection of garbage and refuse from residences
                     within the city.
                     Recycling is encouraged. The current list includes:
                     aluminum cans, corrugated cardboard, glass, newspaper,
RECYCLING:           steel, tin and bimetal cans, plastic containers types 1
                     and 2, magazines, advertising circulars, and office paper
                     as now or hereafter amended.
REFUSE EXCLUSIONS:   Contaminated, toxic or hazardous waste. This includes
                     waste oil, batteries, foam polystyrene packaging, etc.
                     A building or portion thereof, designed or used
                     predominantly for residential occupancy, including one-
                     family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple-family
RESIDENCE:           dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
                     rooming houses or tourist homes. Each unit in two- or
                     multiple-family dwellings shall be considered as a
                     separate residential unit.
                     Plant material (leaves, grass clippings, branches, brush,
                     flowers, roots, etc.), organic debris commonly disposed of
                     in the course of maintaining yards and gardens, including
YARD WASTE:          sod, and other biodegradable organic material. Yard waste
                     excludes food waste, plastic and synthetic fibers, lumber
                     and soil contaminated with hazardous waste. (Ord. 04-1204,
                     12-6-2004; amd. Ord. 21-0907, 9-7-2021)
 
12-5-2: GARBAGE COLLECTION CONTRACT:
   A.   The city council may from time to time, grant by contract, franchise or
otherwise the exclusive right to any person to collect garbage and recycling in
the city on an exclusive basis, or any other reasonable basis that it may deem
appropriate, and no one shall collect garbage and recycling within the city
without being granted the right to do so by the city council. The city council
shall provide rules and regulations for the collection of the garbage and
recycling as is deemed necessary. (Ord. 04-1204, 12-6-2004)
12-5-3: YARD WASTE:
   A.   Open Burning: No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse
in any chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for
the purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned. Open burning of
yard waste is permitted only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      3.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields.
   B.   Composting:
      1.   Composting yard wastes shall be permitted, subject to the following
specifications:
         a.   Shall not exceed five feet (5') cubed (125 cubic feet) in volume.
         b.   Shall be in an appropriate container constructed of wood, wire,
metal or plastic.
         c.   May be in a stationary or rotating unit.
         d.   Shall be located in the back yard, or side yard if no back yard
exists, and shall be screened or fenced so that it is not readily visible off
the lot.
         e.   Shall not be placed within fifteen feet (15') from any lot line,
or in no event closer than one-third (1/3) the dimension of the lot to lot
line.
         f.   Shall not be allowed to become a "nuisance" or to attract
rodents, or to otherwise become a health or safety hazard.
         g.   Shall otherwise comply with all requirements of this code as now
or hereafter amended.
      2.   All compost not ready for use shall be contained in a "holding unit"
or "container" as described as above. In no event shall yard wastes be used or
permitted to be used as or for grading or fill materials on any lot or property
within the city. (Ord. 04-1204, 12-6-2004)
12-5-4: COLLECTION RATES:
   A.   Charges: All residential units shall pay a garbage collection fee of
seventeen dollars seventy-seven cents ($17.77) per unit per month, payable
monthly.
   B.   When Due And Payable: All bills for service shall be rendered as of the
first day of the bimonthly period for which the service is billed and shall be
payable not later than the close of business on the fifteenth day of the date
of the bill.
   C.   Penalty Charge: If payment of the full amount of the bill is not made
within said period, then a penalty charge of ten percent (10%) of the bill
shall be added thereto.
   D.   Income Based Rate: Any resident residing within the corporate
boundaries of East Dubuque is eligible for a 20% discount for water consumption
based on their income. The following income rates are established based on
household size. Proof of income to be verified by submission of most recent
federal income tax return.
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
Household Size Maximum Annual Gross Income
1              $39,450
2              $45,100
3              $50,750
4              $56,350
5              $60,850
6              $65,350
7              $69,900
8              $74,400
Add $6,000 for each household member over 8
 
   HUD 50% of Household, May 1, 2024.
(Ord. 04-1204, 12-6-2004; amd. Ord. 19-0407, 4-1-2019; Ord. 20-0711, 7-13-2020;
Ord. 21-0907, 9-7-2021; Ord. 21-1028, 10-18-2021; Ord. 24-0436, 4-29-2024)
12-5-5: BILLING:
The garbage collection fee shall be billed together with water and sewer or
water or sewer bills if appropriate or desired by the city, and the city shall
have a lien upon all real estate of any resident failing to pay the fee as
provided hereby. (Ord. 04-1204, 12-6-2004)
12-5-6: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the recommendation of our current garbage hauler to supply garbage
carts or recommendations for garbage disposal containers. (Ord. 19-0407, 4-1-
2019)
12-5-7: RECYCLING:
It shall be the recommendation of our current garbage hauler to supply carts or
recommendations for recycling disposal containers. (Ord. 19-0407, 4-1-2019)
12-5-8: DEPOSITING GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit
anywhere in the city (including on private property) any pile of garbage,
recycling or yard waste. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any
premises to permit any piles of garbage, recycling or yard waste to remain on
such premises.
   B.   The preceding provision notwithstanding, it shall not be unlawful for
any owner or occupant of any premises to place or maintain yard waste in a
proper compost container consistent with the regulations of this code.
   C.   In no event shall garbage, refuse or yard wastes be used or permitted
to be used as grading or fill material on any lot or property within the city.
(Ord. 04-1204, 12-6-2004)
TITLE 13
PLANNING
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
13-1-1: Created
13-1-2: Composition
13-1-3: Organization
13-1-4: Official Comprehensive Plan And Official Map
13-1-5: General Powers
13-1-1: CREATED:
A planning commission for the city is created under the authority of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-4. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-1-2: COMPOSITION:
   A.   The planning commission shall consist of the mayor and three (3)
members of the city council appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council, such three (3) members of the city council to be persons who
reside within the corporate limits qualified by training, experience or
interest to exercise sound judgment in matters pertaining to the overall
development of the city. The term of office of each member shall be for two (2)
years or until his successor is appointed by the mayor.
   B.   All vacancies occurring in such commission shall be filled by
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the
original appointments.
   C.   The attendance of two (2) members shall constitute a quorum. A majority
of the quorum shall be sufficient to pass on matters before the planning
commission.
   D.   The city manager shall attend all regular planning commission meetings
and furnish assistance and advice to the commission upon its request. (Ord. 01-
1210, 12-17-2001)
13-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
The mayor shall be the chairman of the commission. The city manager shall serve
as the executive secretary of the commission, although he may designate a
subordinate to fulfill these functions. All the members of the planning
commission shall serve as such without compensation. The planning commission
shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open to public
inspection at all times. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-1-4: OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OFFICIAL MAP:
   A.   The planning commission shall recommend an official comprehensive plan
and official map of public improvements looking to the present and future
developments of the city and consisting of a plan for major streets, off street
parking and central business district, transportation, schools, housing, parks,
public buildings and utilities.
   B.   To ensure that the plan provides the best representation of city goals,
objective and policies, the land use plan and map should be reviewed on an
annual basis by the city manager and/or his designated agent. This includes an
evaluation of the development policies and design controls that have been
incorporated into the zoning and subdivision control ordinances; and, an
analysis of markets to determine whether land use proposals are still viable.
(Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-1-5: GENERAL POWERS:
The planning commission has the power to:
   A.   Recommend changes in the official plan of the city from time to time.
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the council from time to time plans for
specific improvements in pursuance of such official plan.
   C.   Give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan; further the making
of such improvements; and, generally promote the realization of the official
plan.
   D.   Exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this and
other ordinances, as may be conferred by the city council of the city. (Ord.
01-1210, 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Board Established; Composition
13-2-2: Powers And Duties
13-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There shall be a board of local improvements to be composed of the mayor and
three (3) aldermen. (Ord., 5-16-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
13-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
In making local improvements by special assessments, the board of local
improvements shall follow the procedures set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/9-2-1 et seq., with amendments thereto, adopted prior to the
adoption of this chapter. Said 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-2-1 et seq.,
are hereby adopted by the city by reference, a copy of such provisions having
been on file in the office of the city clerk for a period of fifteen (15) days
prior to the adoption of this chapter. The board of local improvements and the
mayor and the city council shall have all the powers and duties set forth in
said statute incorporated herein by reference. (Ord., 5-16-1994; amd. 2001
Code)
CHAPTER 3
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
13-3-1: Adoption
13-3-2: Interpretation
13-3-3: Changes And Amendments
13-3-4: Conformity Of Maps And Plats
13-3-5: Variations
13-3-6: Matters Referred To The Planning Commission
13-3-7: Severability
13-3-1: ADOPTION:
The East Dubuque comprehensive plan and development policies, dated December
17, 2001, is hereby adopted as the general development plan (official
comprehensive plan and official map) of the city, together with all amendments
heretofore passed. Said plan shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and publication in pamphlet form. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-2: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying this chapter and the provisions of the plan
adopted by this chapter, such provisions shall in every instance be held to be
the minimum reasonable requirements adopted for the promotion of public health,
safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and contiguous
territory. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-3: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
From time to time the planning commission may recommend changes in the
comprehensive plan or any other part of the official plan which may be
subsequently adopted. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-4: CONFORMITY OF MAPS AND PLATS:
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land within
the corporate limits or within contiguous territory that is not more than one
and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any
municipality shall be entitled to be recorded or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provides for streets, alleys, public grounds and
other standards of design for subdivision and for resubdivision of unimproved
land and of areas subject to redevelopment in conformity with the comprehensive
plan adopted in this chapter or any other part of the official plan that may be
subsequently adopted. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-5: VARIATIONS:
The permissible degree of variation from the literal requirements of the
official comprehensive plan or any part thereof shall be determined by the city
council after receipt of the recommendation of the planning commission. (Ord.
01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-6: MATTERS REFERRED TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION:
The plats and all plans for all subdivisions and resubdivisions within the
jurisdiction of the city, planned unit developments or other matters and
relating to the general development of the community and which may affect or be
affected by the official comprehensive plan or any part thereof shall be
referred to the planning commission for examination, hearing if required by
law, and preparation of a written report before the council shall take action
thereon. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
13-3-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 01-1210, 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 4
LANDMARK DESIGNATION
SECTION:
13-4-1: Authority
13-4-2: Landmark Designation Area
13-4-3: Action Taken By The Municipality
13-4-4: Denial Of A Permit
13-4-5: Severability
13-4-6: Effective Date
13-4-1: AUTHORITY:
The city of East Dubuque has the power to provide for official landmark
designation by ordinance for property; and to provide special conditions, to
impose regulations governing construction, alteration, demolition and use, and
to adopt other additional measures appropriate for their preservation,
protection, enhancement, rehabilitation, reconstruction, perpetuation or use
under the authority of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-48.2 et seq. (Ord.
03-0913, 9-15-2003)
13-4-2: LANDMARK DESIGNATION AREA:
The East Dubuque city council hereby grants a landmark designation area for
property located at 391 and 399 Sinsinawa Avenue, which is commonly known as
the Captain Merry House buildings. (Ord. 03-0913, 9-15-2003)
13-4-3: ACTION TAKEN BY THE MUNICIPALITY:
No action taken by the municipality directing a private owner to do or refrain
from doing any specific thing, or refusing to permit a private owner to do some
specific thing he desires to do, in connection with property designated by this
chapter, shall be taken by the municipality except after due notice to such
owner and opportunity for him to be heard at a public hearing. (Ord. 03-0913,
9-15-2003)
13-4-4: DENIAL OF A PERMIT:
The denial of an application for a building demolition permit or the denial of
an application for a building permit to add to, modify or remove a portion of
any building or the imposition of any regulation solely by reason of the
provision of federal, state or local laws or ordinances, directly or
indirectly, an alteration or cessation in the use to which the interior space
in any building is put, or which requires any addition or modification in or to
any building, or which requires any unusual or extraordinary provisions for
upkeep and maintenance of any building, shall not constitute a taking or damage
for a public use of such property for which just compensation shall be
ascertained and paid. (Ord. 03-0913, 9-15-2003)
13-4-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 03-0913, 9-15-2003)
13-4-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication
in pamphlet form as provided by law. (Ord. 03-0913, 9-15-2003)
TITLE 14
BUILDING AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Building Numbers Required
14-1-1: BUILDING NUMBERS REQUIRED:
All commercial, industrial, and residential buildings within the city shall
have clearly visible and legible identification/address numbers posted on the
front of the building facing the street of address. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 3-17-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
14-2-1: Short Title
14-2-2: Purpose And Declaration Of Policy
14-2-3: Interpretation And Application
14-2-4: Definitions
14-2-5: Property Owners
14-2-6: Real Estate Agents
14-2-7: Lending Institutions
14-2-8: False Representation
14-2-9: Additional Prohibitions
14-2-10: Complaints And Remedies
14-2-11: Penalty
14-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FAIR HOUSING CHAPTER OF THE
CITY OF EAST DUBUQUE, ILLINOIS. (Ord., 4-3-1995)
14-2-2: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise by the city of its police and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety, and
welfare of the persons in and residing in the city and for the maintenance and
promotion of commerce, industry or desiring to live in the city, a fair
opportunity to purchase, lease, rent, or occupy housing without discrimination
based on age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex,
familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap. (Ord., 4-3-1995;
amd. 2001 Code)
14-2-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Interpretation: This chapter shall be construed according to the fair
import of its terms and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes
and policy stated in section
14-2-2 of this chapter and the special purpose of the particular provision
involved.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the
chapter and the application of the provision to other persons not similarly
situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord., 4-3-
1995)
14-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the city of
East Dubuque which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living
quarters of one or more individuals.
HOUSING: Includes any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the
city of East Dubuque, which is used or occupied or intended, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied as the home, residence, or living quarters of
one or more individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land
within the city of East Dubuque which is zoned and intended to be used for the
construction of any such building or structure.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or selling loans or
instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to a security
interest in real estate, but shall not include any religious institution or
organization nor any charitable or educational organization operated,
supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or equitable title to
shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any dwelling or housing.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any real estate broker, any real estate salesman, and any
other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the management
or operation of any dwelling or housing.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person licensed as a real estate broker in accordance
with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 455/1 et seq., or
required thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE SALESMAN: Any person licensed as a real estate salesman in
accordance with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 455/1 et seq.,
or required thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any dwelling
or housing, and an option to do any of the foregoing.
SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange, or to convey, transfer or assign
legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate. (Ord., 4-
3-1995)
14-2-5: PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and
a violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to:
      1.   Discrimination Generally: Sell or lease a dwelling or housing on
terms, conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of
age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, familial and
marital status, or physical or mental handicap.
      2.   Refusal To Deal: Refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform any
sale or lease of any dwelling or housing because of the age, race, creed,
color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, familial and marital status,
or physical or mental handicap of any party to such sale or lease, or of any
member of the family of any such party, or of any person using or occupying or
intending to use or occupy such dwelling or housing, or of any person using or
occupying any dwelling or housing in the area in which such dwelling or housing
is located.
      3.   Withholding Housing: Represent to any person that any dwelling or
housing is not available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease, or occupancy
when in fact it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing from any
person because of age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
sex, familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap. (Ord., 4-3-
1995; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   Advertisements, Signs And Notices:
         a.   Cause any person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under this section.
         b.   Cause any person to circulate or publish a statement,
advertisement or notice that such owner or other person intends to sell or
lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this section,
or to consent thereto.
         c.   Post or erect, or cause any person to post or erect, any sign or
notice upon any dwelling or housing indicating an intent to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this section.
   B.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to the rental of any room or
dwelling unit in any owner-occupied dwelling which consists of more than one
but less than five (5) dwelling units. As used herein, the term "dwelling unit"
means one or more rooms which are arranged, designed, or used as living
quarters for one family or one individual. The term "owner" includes the spouse
or any lineal descendant or ancestor of the owner.
   C.   Limitation:
      1.   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to
the public at large before selling or renting it, providing he complies with
all other provisions of this chapter. Nor shall this chapter be deemed to
prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for any
reason other than religion, race, color or national origin, ancestry, sex,
familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property for
sale or lease or to show his property to any person if such person is not
negotiating for the purchase or lease of such property in good faith. (Ord., 4-
3-1995; amd. 2001 Code{'}'}
14-2-6: REAL ESTATE AGENTS:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and
a violation of this chapter for any real estate agent or other person to:
      1.   Withholding Housing: Represent to any person that any dwelling or
housing is not available for inspection, sale, lease or occupancy when in fact
it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing from any person because of
age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, familial and
marital status, or physical or mental handicap.
      2.   Refusal Of Offers: Refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona
fide offer for the purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any dwelling or housing
because of the age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
sex, familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap of the person
making such offer. (Ord., 4-3-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Advertisements, Signs And Notices:
         a.   Publish or circulate a statement, advertisement or notice of an
intention to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful
under section
14-2-5 of this chapter.
         b.   Post or erect, or cause or permit any person to post or erect,
any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing managed by or in the custody,
care or control of such real estate agent or other person indicating an intent
to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under
this section or section
14-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   License Required For Brokers: Every real estate broker shall apply for
and obtain a license from the city prior to transacting any business involving
real estate in the city as a real estate broker and prior to advertising or
assuming to act as such real estate broker. The commission of a single act as
such real estate broker without such license shall constitute a violation of
this chapter. (Ord., 4-3-1995)
14-2-7: LENDING INSTITUTIONS:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and
a violation of this chapter for any lending institution:
      1.   In making, agreeing to make, arranging, or negotiating any loan or
guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the purchase or sale,
construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any
dwelling or house, to offer, seek or agree to terms, conditions or privileges
that discriminate between persons because of age, race, creed, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, familial and marital status, or physical or
mental handicap.
      2.   To refuse to negotiate for, enter into or perform any agreement to
lend or guarantee the loan of funds for the purchase, sale, construction,
lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any dwelling or
housing because of the age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, sex, familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap of
any party to such agreement or of any member of the family of any such party,
or of the residents of the area in which such dwelling or housing is located.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall apply, respectively, to
every real estate agent who, within the city performs any function as such real
estate agent but does not maintain an office or place of doing business within
the city, and this section applies to every real estate agent and lending
institution who maintains an office or place of doing business within the city;
provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not be so
construed as to prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent, on behalf
of the owner, from inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of any
prospective buyer or tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other
than those of age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
sex, familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap. (Ord., 4-3-
1995; amd. 2001 Code)
14-2-8: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice, and a violation of this chapter, for
any person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real
estate transaction with such person, his principal or his agent: (Ord., 4-3-
1995)
   A.   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur with
respect to the age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
sex, familial and marital status, or physical or mental handicap in the
composition of the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area in
which the dwelling or housing (which is the subject of the real estate
transaction) is located; or
   B.   To represent that a change with respect to the age, race, creed, color,
religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, familial and marital status, or
physical or mental handicap in the composition of the owners or occupants in
any block, neighborhood or area will result in lowering of property values, or
in an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior or in a decline in the
quality of schools in such block, neighborhood or area. (Ord., 4-3-1995; amd.
2001 Code)
14-2-9: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person to:
   A.   Aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to engage in unlawful housing
practice;
   B.   Wilfully interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise of a
power by the city council or one of its members or representatives; or
   C.   Wilfully obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this chapter or an order issued hereunder. (Ord., 4-3-1995)
14-2-10: COMPLAINTS AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Complaints:
      1.   Filing Complaint; Time Limit: Any person aggrieved in any manner by
a violation of any provisions of this chapter may file with the city council a
written verified complaint setting forth his grievance. The complaint shall
state: a) the name and address of the complainant; b) the name and address of
the person against whom the complaint is brought, if known to the complainant;
and c) the alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter, and
such complaint shall state the names and addresses of all persons believed to
have knowledge concerning the alleged facts. Any complaint filed hereunder with
the city council must be filed within ninety (90) days after the alleged
discriminatory practice occurred, or it shall be barred.
      2.   Notice Served: After the filing of any complaint, the city council
shall serve a copy of the complaint on the party or parties charged.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Hearings shall be conducted by the city council upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties. The city council shall have power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have
violated this chapter shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall
have the right to call witnesses in his own behalf and to cross- examine
witnesses.
      2.   At the conclusion of such hearing, the city council shall render the
complainant a decision.
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   The city council shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
chapter.
      2.   The city council shall be empowered, at the conclusion of
proceedings held under subsection B of this section, to direct the city
attorney to do any one or more of the following:
         a.   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce, against any
person found in violation of this chapter, the fine provided for in section
14-2-11 of this chapter.
         b.   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
            (1)   For an order restraining any person from violating any
provision of this chapter.
            (2)   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violations hereof.
         c.   To petition or institute proceedings with the department of
registration and education for the purpose of causing the department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by the department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any provision of
this chapter.
         d.   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to petition or
institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose of causing
it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either absolutely or on
condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The city council may issue such cease and desist orders and may
direct such action by the city attorney as shall be necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   D.   Remedies: Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any
provision of this chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in subsection
C of this section may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
appropriate relief from such violation, including:
      1.   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
      2.   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
      3.   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the
sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or
housing, or any person who, in violation of this chapter, refuses or fails to
perform such contract;
      4.   Compensatory damages; and
      5.   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate
for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof.
(Ord., 4-3-1995)
14-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-3-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDING
SECTION:
14-3-1: Purpose
14-3-2:    Definitions
14-3-3:    Permit Required
14-3-4:    Vacant Building Maintenance Requirements
14-3-5:    Enforcement And Penalties
14-3-6: Requirements
14-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Identify and register vacant commercial, business, special use
business, and industrial buildings that may:
      1.   Present a fire hazard;
      2.   Become an attractive nuisance;
      3.   Detract from private or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain
surrounding buildings; or
      4.   Present a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the public;
   B.   Set forth the responsibilities of any owner( s) of vacant buildings and
structures; and
   C.   To encourage the rehabilitation of vacant buildings. (Ord. 25-0414, 4-
7-2025)
14-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless the context of their usage
clearly indicates a different meaning. All other terms defined elsewhere in
this code shall be as defined therein:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate building or structure located on
the same lot as an existing principal building, which is incidental and
subordinate to the principal building.
ACTIVELY MARKETED: A vacant commercial or industrial building that displays a
"For Sale" sign prominently visible to the public, and the property is listed
for sale for a reasonable price on the local multiple listing service by a
licensed realtor. An asking price not greater than one hundred and fifty
percent (150%) of the total assessed value, as determined by the county
assessor, is presumptively a "reasonable price."
BOARDING OR BOARDED: The act of securing a building from unauthorized entry by
attaching boards or similar rigid materials to doors and windows, for the
purpose of preventing unauthorized entry (boarding), or the result thereof
(boarded).
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: A building constructed for or intended to be used by one
or more property users or employees engaged in work, for which compensation is
intended to be received for goods, services, entertainment, or other fungible
activities, or a building where commercial or personal storage is the principal
use.
FORM OF DISPLAY: Installation and display of goods, artifacts, historic photos,
items of local interest, or other items arranged in and visible through first
floor display windows, to avoid the appearance of vacancy.
INDUSTRIAL BUILDING: A building constructed for or intended to be used for
transforming materials or substances into new products, such as assembly of
component parts, manufacturing of products, or blending of materials, and
including such ancillary functions such as (but not limited to) administration,
storage, and showrooms.
MIXED-USE BUILDING: A commercial building that also contains a residential
function, where at least thirty percent (30%) of the ground floor area is
dedicated to commercial functions. A mixed-use building shall be considered the
same as a commercial building for the purposes of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person, in whose name a property is titled, and any person with a
recorded contract interest in the property, and any person, agent, servicing
company, firm, third party, or financial institution that has an interest in
the property as a result of an assignment, sale, mortgage, transfer of a
mortgage, or similar instrument, or having an agreement with any one of the
above for the purpose of securing and/or managing the property.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building within which is conducted the principal function
of the lot on which the building is located.
PROPERLY MAINTAINED: A vacant building that is maintained in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
SECURED: All accessible means of ingress and egress to a vacant structure,
including but not limited to all exterior doorways and windows, are locked,
boarded, or otherwise obstructed so as to prevent unauthorized entry.
VACANT: A building or structure that is unoccupied or unused, or a building
that does not contain a lawful commercial or industrial function that is open
for business or is actively operated, with the exception of holidays and
seasonal businesses, and also meets one or more of the following:
   A.   The building is unsecured or is secured by means other than those used
in the design of the building.
   B.   The building is declared a dangerous building or otherwise unfit for
occupancy, as determined by the City Manager.
   C.   The building is not in compliance with the building code, fire code, or
property maintenance code adopted by the City.
   D.   The building has or contains nuisance, property maintenance, health and
safety, or zoning violations: or
   E.   The building is not receiving all public utilities necessary for
occupancy. A building that is being used strictly for storage that otherwise
meets the above requirements shall be considered to be vacant, unless storage
is the principal function of the building and premises and if such storage is
permitted under applicable zoning. (Ord. 25-0414, 4-7-2025)
14-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Applicability. The owner of any principal building or structure that is
vacant shall apply for a vacant building permit within one hundred and twenty
(120) days of the building becoming vacant. Any accessory building or structure
on the same lot with a vacant principal building is also considered to be
vacant, regardless of any use or occupancy of the accessory building or
structure.
   B.   Exemptions. The owner of a vacant building may, in writing and prior to
expiration of the one hundred and twenty (120)-day registration period, request
an exemption from the requirements of this chapter, provided that the one or
more of the following conditions exists:
      1.   The building is under active construction/renovation and has a valid
building permit, until the expiration of the longest ruuning active building
permit.
      2.   The building has suffered fire damage, flood damage, damage caused
by extreme weather conditions, or weakening of the structural integrity of the
building resulting from an accident or other cause not of the owner's own
making: provided that the owner will initiate renovation or demolition within
one (1) year of the date the damage occurred and has provided a commitment to
do so in writing.
      3.   The building is actively marketed, as defined in this chapter: in
which case the building may be exempted for a period ofup to twelve (12) months
from the start of vacancy, subject to the following:
         a.   The owner shall present proof of listing the property for sale to
the City Manager, according to the definitional requirements of "actively
marketed" in section 6-10-2-2, above. The City Manager or his/her designee may
request proof of continued compliance with this requirement at any time during
the twelve (12) month period and may rescind the exemption if such proof is not
provided.
         b.   If the property is offered for sale, the City Manager may deny
this exemption if the listing price is one hundred fifty percent (150%) or
greater than the assessed value of the real estate as determined by the County
Assessor. However, if the owner provides either a certified appraisal or a
licensed realtor's opinion of cost justifying the listing price, the exemption
may be granted.
      4.   The owner of the building provides proof of imminent sale,
rehabilitation, or otherwise lawful renovation or occupation of the building,
which may occur during or after the ninety (90)-day registration period:
however, to qualify for the exemption, the owner must also show that the sale,
construction, or occupation will occur within one (1) year of becoming vacant.
Proof shall be in the form of an executed real estate purchase agreement,
construction contract, or other legally enforceable agreement or contract, any
of which must remain in force until the sale, occupation, or project is
complete.
      5.   Any commercial or industrial building or structure determined to be
vital for purpose of economic development by the City Manager.
      6.   Any vacant building owned by the City of East Dubuque.
      7.   An owner of a vacant building that does not qualify for an exemption
under the above may request an exemption for a period of up to twelve (12)
months from the provisions of this chapter by :filing a written application
with the City Manager. The applicant shall present justification for the
exemption and shall show proof that the need for the exemption is not due to
action or inaction by the applicant or by any other party with control of the
property. In determining whether a request for exemption should be granted, the
City Manager shall consider all of the following:
         a.   The applicant's prior record as it pertains to the city's
building code, fire code, property maintenance code, nuisance regulations, or
other relevant city code violations;
      2.   The amount of vacant property the applicant currently owns or
controls within the City; and
      3.   The length of time that the building for which the exception is
sought has been vacant.
   C.   Application. The owner of a vacant building shall apply for a vacant
building permit. A complete application shall include the following:
      1.   Name of the owner and means of contacting the owner during business
and nonbusiness hours.
      2.   Name and contact information for any manager or other party
responsible for the property other than the owner.
      3.   The names and addresses of all known contract and lien holders and
any other party with an ownership interest in the vacant building.
      4.   Proof of insurance: one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) in
general liability coverage, and fire and casualty coverage equal to no less
than replacement value as determined by the insurance provider, or a minimum of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
      5.   A Vacant Building Plan, as outlined below.
   D.   Vacant Building Plan. A plan for maintenance, disposal, or removal of
the vacant building, in accordance with this chapter, shall accompany the
permit application. The applicant shall select a Vacant Building Plan from one
of the following three categories:
      1.   Demolition. If the vacant commercial or industrial building is to be
demolished, the Vacant Building Plan shall include a proposed time frame for
demolition, which shall not exceed nine (9) months in duration.
      2.   Secured Structme. If the vacant commercial or industrial building is
expected to remain vacant, the Vacant Building Plan shall contain all of the
following:
         a.   A plan for fire alarm and fire protection, if required by the
Fire Marshal.
         b.   A plan of action to remedy any public nuisance existing in the
building or on the property, within thirty (30) days of permit issuance.
         c.   A lighting plan for the exterior of the building and property,
walkways adjacent thereto, parking or loading areas, and nighttime illumination
of areas and walkways of the building and property that may be vulnerable to
vandalism or vagrancy, including a regular maintenance plan for all exterior
lighting and illumination fixtures.
         d.   A plan to secure the building. Boarding or other covering of
windows and doors must comply with section 6-10-4-1 of this chapter.
         e.   A plan to maintain the vacant commercial or industrial building
and property in compliance with the Vacant Building Maintenance Standards set
forth in section 6-10-4 of this chapter.
      3.   Rehabilitation. If the owner of the vacant building intends to
return it to lawful occupancy or function, the Vacant Building Plan shall
include a rehabilitation time frame for the building and property, which shall
not exceed twelve (12) months. A valid building permit, or a written waiver
from the City Manager that a permit is not required, shall be obtained within
three (3) months of the issuance of the Vacant Building Permit. The City
Manager may grant an extension of time upon receipt of a written statement from
the owner detailing any unavoidable delays causing the need for the extension.
The rehabilitation shall conform to all applicable laws and the owner shall
obtain all required permits. The owner shall keep the building secured and in
compliance with the Vacant Building Maintenance Standards as provided in
section 6-10-4 of this chapter at all times during rehabilitation.
   E.   Fees. The City Council shall pass a resolution stating the amount of
all fees and costs of all penalties.
      1.   Initial Fee. The initial fee is due at the time of initial
registration of the vacant building.
      2.   Renewal Fee. The renewal fee is due one (1) year after issuance of
the initial registration of the vacant building. The Resolution setting fees
shall establish the renewal fee in an amount higher than the initial fee and
shall require that the amount of the renewal fee increase each additional year
a renewal is required, provided that the resolution may determine a maximum fee
after a specified number of years have passed.
      3.   Refund.
         a.   If the vacant building is occupied or otherwise brought into
lawful use within three (3) months after issuance of the permit, eighty percent
(80%) of the fees paid for that year shall be refunded to the owner.
         b.   If the vacant building is occupied or otherwise brought into
lawful use more than three (3) months but less than six (6) months after
issuance of the permit, fifty percent (50%) of the fees paid for that year
shall be refunded to the owner.
         c.   No refund shall be granted if the vacant building is occupied or
otherwise brought into lawful use six (6) months or more after issuance of the
vacant building permit.
   F.   Requirements.
      1.   Length of Registration. A registration permit shall be valid for one
(1) year.
      2.   Renewal.
         a.   If the building remains vacant on the date of expiration of the
permit, the owner shall be granted a thirty (30) day grace period to renew the
permit and pay required fees; however, the renewal year shall commence one day
after expiration of the prior registration.
         b.   The owner shall submit a new Vacant Building Plan at the time of
renewal, unless the owner certifies in writing that there will be no change to
the Vacant Building Plan already on file.
      3.   Consent to Entry. An applicant for a permit or for a renewal shall
consent to the entry of the City Manager, or his/her designee, at all
reasonable hours and upon reasonable notice for the purpose of inspection.
Refusal to consent to entry shall be a violation of this chapter. In addition
to issuing a municipal infraction citation in the event of refusal, the City
may file a complaint under oath to a court of competent jurisdiction requesting
a wan.ant and shall complete the inspection upon issuance of a warrant by the
court.
      4.   Consent to Emergency Inspections or Emergency Repairs. An applicant
for a permit or for a renewal shall consent to the entry of the City Manager,
or his/her designee, if the City Manager has reason to believe that an
emergency exists with respect to the building or structure that creates, or
tends to create, an imminent hazard to health, welfare, or safety of the
public. If the City Manager believes that such an emergency exists, then the
City Manager may enter the building to inspect the premises, without notifying
the responsible party or obtaining a warrant. If the City Manager funds an
emergency situation exists that presents an imminent hazard to the health,
welfare or safety of the general public, then the City Manager may cause any
reasonable action, including the employment of necessary labor and materials,
to perform emergency repairs to alleviate the hazard. The owner shall pay costs
incurred in the performance of emergency repairs; and if not paid by the owner,
the City may place a lien against the property to recover the costs.
      5.   Cooperation by the Owner or Responsible Person. All owners holding a
permit and responsible persons identified in a permit application shall
cooperate with and facilitate inspections of the premises at reasonable times
pursuant to reasonable notice. Obstructing a duly authorized inspection,
including refusing entry or access to portions of the building subject to the
permit, shall be a violation of this chapter. The owner shall notify the City
Manager within thirty (30) business days of any changes to the contact
information of the owner or responsible person.
      6.   Continued Compliance. For the Vacant Building Permit to remain
valid, the building or structure shall continuously comply with the filed
Vacant Building Plan and the Vacant Building Maintenance Requirements of this
chapter, below. Failure to maintain the building in accordance with this
chapter shall be a violation of the City Code.
   G.   Process.
      1.   Inspections.
         a.   Upon receipt of a complete initial application or renewal
application, including payment of required fees, the City Manager or his/her
designee shall schedule an inspection.
         b.   The City Manager or his/her designee shall prepare an inspection
report, noting the condition of the property and any deficiencies from the
requirements of this chapter. The owner shall receive a copy of the inspection
report.
      2.   Vacant Building Permit. Upon a finding by the City Manager that the
vacant building is secure, is not hazardous, and does not present a public
nuisance, the City Manager shall issue a Vacant Building Permit.
      3.   If the Vacant Building Permit is denied, the City Manager shall
notify the applicant in writing of the deficiencies. The applicant shall be
given a reasonable amount of time to correct deficiencies, which shall in no
case extend beyond thirty (30) days, unless extended by the City Manager.
Failure to secure a valid permit shall be a violation of this chapter.
   H.   Appeals. Any determination of the City Manager may be appealed to the
City Council. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to
the City Manager within seven (7) working days from the date the determinations
being appealed is communicated to the owner. If an appeal is not filed as set
forth herein, it will be conclusively presumed that the City Manager's
determination is correct. The findings of the Council shall be conclusive.
   I.   Sale or Transfer. The owner may sell or transfer the permit to a new
owner, who shall be subject to the Vacant Building Plan and any other
conditions imposed on the permit. The new owner shall notify the City of the
transfer and provide contact information for the new owner and any new
management or other person responsible for maintaining or operating the
property within thirty (30) days of the transfer. Failure to notify the City of
a transfer as required shall be a violation of the City Code. (Ord. 25-0414, 4-
7-2025)
14-3-4: VACANT BUILDING MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Maintenance Requirements. All buildings or structures subject to the
application shall be adequately protected from intrusion by trespassers and
pests, and from deterioration by the weather. The building must also comply
with the approved Vacant Building Plan and the following Vacant Building
Maintenance Standards:
      1.   Building Openings. All doors, windows, areaways, and other openings
shall be weathertight and secured against entry by birds, vermin, and
trespassers.
      2.   Waste Removal. All waste, debris, rubbish, and garbage shall be
removed from the interior of the building or structure and surrounding
premises, on an ongoing basis.
      3.   Roofs. The roof and flashings shall be sound and tight, not admit
moisture, or have defects that could admit moisture, rain, or roof draining,
and shall allow for sufficient drainage to prevent dampness or deterioration in
the interior of the building. Where present, parapets shall be structurally
sound and kept in good repair.
      4.   Drainage. The building storm drainage system shall be functional and
installed in an approved manner and shall allow discharge in an approved
manner.
      5.   Building Structure. The building shall be maintained in good repair
and structurally sound. The building shall be maintained in a manner that does
not pose a threat to public health, safety, or welfare Structural Members. The
structural members shall be free of deterioration and capable of safely bearing
imposed dead and live loads.
      6.   Structural Matters. The structural members shall be free of
deterioration and capable of safely bearing imposed dead and live loads.
      7.   Foundation Walls. The foundation walls shall be maintained
structurally sound so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare. The foundation shall be capable of supporting the load that normal use
places upon it, and shall be free from open cracks and breaks, free from leaks,
and be secure from entry and infiltration by vermin.
      8.   Exterior Walls. The exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials. Exposed metal, wood, or other surfaces shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic applications
of weather-coating materials, such as paint, stain, or similar surface
treatment. Brick, stone, or other materials shall be maintained to be
structurally secure.
      9.   Decorative Features and Appurtenances. The cornices, belt courses,
corbels, terracotta trim, decorative metal facade, wall facings and similar
decorative features and appurtenances shall be safe, anchored, and in good
repair. Exposed metal, wood, or other surfaces shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic applications of weather coating
materials, such as paint, stain, or similar surface treatment.
      10.   Overhanging Extensions. All balconies, canopies, marquees, signs,
awnings, stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts, and similar
features shall be in good repair, anchored, safe and sound. Exposed metal,
wood, or other surfaces shall be protected from the elements and against decay
or rust by periodic applications of weather coating materials, such as paint or
similar surface treatment.
      11.   Chimneys and Towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and
similar features shall be structurally safe and in good repair. Exposed metal,
wood, brick, stone, or other surfaces shall be protected from the elements and
against decay or rust by periodic applications of weather-coating materials.
      12.   Walkways. Public walkways shall be in good repair, shall be safe
for pedestrian travel, and shall be free of snow and ice. Snow and ice removal
shall be completed in accordance with the requirements of this City Code.
      13.   Accessory Building/Structures. Accessory buildings or structures
such as garages, sheds, and fences shall be free from safety, health, and fire
hazards, and shall be kept in good repair.
      14.   Exterior Premises. The surrounding premises upon which the
structure or building is located shall be clean, safe, sanitary, free from
waste, rubbish, garbage, excessive vegetation, and other nuisances; shall not
be used for exterior storage; and shall not pose a threat to public health,
safety, or welfare. (Ord. 25-0414, 4-7-2025)
14-3-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   For the first ninety (90) consecutive days following issuance of the
registration permit, the registration fee shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a vacant building.
   B.   For each subsequent ninety (90) consecutive day period, the
registration fee for the same vacant building shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      1.   The initial registration and each subsequent registration shall be
valid for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days provided the applicable
registration fee has been fully paid by an owner.
      2.   The initial registration fee is due and payable by an owner at the
time of the application for the registration permit; and each subsequent
registration fee is due and payable by an owner prior to the expiration of the
previous ninety (90) consecutive day registration period.
      3.   If at the end of any ninety (90) consecutive day registration period
the building official determines that such building is no longer a vacant
building, then an owner will not be required to pay the next registration fee
for such building.
      4.   Before a registration permit or an enclosure permit is issued and
from time to time after a registration permit or an enclosure permit is issued
an inspection or inspections may be conducted by the building official and by
and any other city official deemed necessary by the building official to
determine whether any violations of this code exist concerning the vacant
building or the property where it is located. If an owner or occupant of a
vacant building or the property where it is located. If an owner or occupant of
a vacant building refuses to allow any inspection or reinspection to be
conducted, an administrative search warrant may be requested from a circuit
court of competent jurisdiction upon a showing of probable cause that a city
code violation exists concerning the vacant building or the property where it
is located.
      5.   Once such a building has been registered, an owner shall obtain a
certificate of occupancy prior to any occupancy of the registered building.
      6.   After a building has been registered, or required to be registered
hereunder, an owner shall be required to either demolish the vacant building or
obtain a city permit sufficient to obtain a certificate of occupancy within
three hundred sixty-five (365) consecutive days following issuance of the
notice to register.
      7.   Any owner who does not obtain such certificate of occupancy permit
or fails to demolish such building within said three hundred sixty-five (365)
consecutive day period shall be subject to fines and penalties as stated in
this chapter.
      8.   Each vacant building that has been registered, or is required to be
registered hereunder, under this chapter shall be listed on the city’s website,
which listing shall include the address of such building and the name of the
record owner of the property on which such building is located.
      9.   All registration fees are nonrefundable.
(Ord. 25-0414, 4-7-2025; amd. Ord. 25-0810, 8-4-2025)
14-3-6: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Length Of Registration: A registration permit shall be valid for ninety
(90) days and may be renewed for a period of one (1) year.
   B.   Renewal:
      1.   The owner shall submit a new vacant building plan at the time of
renewal, unless the owner certifies in writing that there will be no change to
the vacant building plan already on file.
(Ord. 25-0810, 8-4-2025)
CHAPTER 4
INSPECTION OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
14-4-1: Definitions
14-4-2: Inspections, Certificate Of Occupancy
14-4-3: Violations; Penalties
14-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: Any building other than a single- family home,
condominiums, or townhomes or farm building.
NEWLY CONSTRUCTED COMMERCIAL BUILDING: Any commercial building for which
original construction has commenced on or after July 1, 2011.
QUALIFIED INSPECTOR: An individual qualified by the state of Illinois,
certified by a nationally recognized building official certification
organization or qualified by an apprentice program certified by the bureau of
apprentice training or who has filed verification of inspection experience
according to the rules adopted by CDB for the purposes of conducting
inspections in nonbuilding code jurisdictions.
SATISFACTORY BUILDING INSPECTION: A thorough inspection by a qualified
inspector that evaluates the structural and mechanical condition of a property
and determines if the building is in substantial compliance and fit to open to
public.
SATISFACTORY FIRE INSPECTION: A thorough inspection by a representative of the
East Dubuque fire department that evaluates fire hazard safety, in accordance
with the life, health, safety code and determines that fire extinguishers,
suppressions systems, exits, access and egress routes are in compliance and
building is fit to be open to public. (Ord. 13-0420, 4-15-2013)
14-4-2: INSPECTIONS, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Qualified Inspectors: Under the act, local governments are granted the
right to enter agreements with other governmental units to enforce building
codes as well as to hire third party qualified inspectors in accordance with
the terms of the act to provide inspection services. A list of qualified
inspectors will be provided by the city. Any qualified inspector not on the
list must be preapproved by the city.
   B.   Building Inspection: If a commercial building within the city of East
Dubuque municipal limits is under new construction, or it has been vacant for a
consecutive period of thirty (30) days, prior to opening the doors to the
public, a satisfactory building inspection, by a qualified inspector, must be
submitted to the zoning administrator for approval. All costs of the inspection
are the responsibility of the owner.
   C.   Fire Inspection: If a commercial building within the city of East
Dubuque municipal limits is under new construction, or it has been vacant for a
consecutive period of thirty (30) days, prior to opening the doors to the
public, a satisfactory fire inspection, by the East Dubuque fire department,
must be submitted to the zoning administrator for approval. All costs of the
inspection are the responsibility of the owner.
   D.   Transfer Of Ownership: Upon transfer of ownership of a commercial
building, within the city of East Dubuque municipal limits, a satisfactory
building inspection, by a qualified inspector, prior to opening its doors to
the public, must be submitted to the zoning administrator for approval. All
costs of the inspection are the responsibility of the owner.
   E.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy: Upon approval by the zoning
administrator, following review of a satisfactory inspection, a certificate of
occupancy will be signed and given to the owner. Occupancy and use shall not be
allowed until the certificate is issued. Any deficiencies that are identified
in the inspection must be corrected as directed by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 13-0420, 4-15-2013)
14-4-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Of Nuisance: Any commercial building open to the public which
has not complied with this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It
shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to cause a written or printed
notice to be served upon the owner and/or the occupant requiring him to conform
to the requirements of this code and may further demand the commercial building
be closed to the public until such conformance has been done. In addition, any
person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for failure
to comply with this chapter. Each day of noncompliance shall be deemed to be a
separate offense. (Ord. 13-0420, 4-15-2013)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING CODE AND NUISANCE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
14-5-1: Administrative Adjudication Of Building Codes And Nuisances
14-5-2: Administrative Adjudication Procedures Not Exclusive
14-5-3: Code Hearing Division - Hearing Officer: Powers And Duties
14-5-4: Administrative Hearing Process
14-5-5: Prima Facie Case; Rules Of Evidence; Standard Of Proof
14-5-6: Subpoenas And Defaults
14-5-7: Continuances
14-5-8: Rights Of Property Occupants
14-5-9: Defenses To Code Violations And Nuisances
14-5-10: Findings, Decision, And Order
14-5-11: Judicial Review
14-5-12: Enforcement Of Administrative Orders
14-5-13: Sanctions Applicable To Owner
14-5-14: Vacant Residential Real Estate
14-5-15: Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement
14-5-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF BUILDING CODES AND NUISANCES:
The City of East Dubuque, pursuant to authority of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., establishes a system of administrative
adjudication for the adjudication of the City's building code violations and
nuisances to the extent permitted by statute and the Illinois Constitution. As
used in this chapter, a "system of administrative adjudication" means the
adjudication of any violation of this code found only in (i) the provisions of
title 14, chapters 1 through 4, title 15, chapters 1 through 12, and (ii) the
commission of nuisances as defined in this code (hereinafter "building code and
nuisance administrative adjudication"). (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-2: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the City of a system of building code and nuisance
administrative adjudication procedures does not preclude the City from using
other methods to enforce municipal building codes and nuisances, including, but
not limited to, relief in the Circuit Court for the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit,
Jo Daviess County, Illinois. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-3: CODE HEARING DIVISION - HEARING OFFICER: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   A code hearing division is established with the authority to oversee
the building code and nuisance administrative adjudication process in the City
as herein provided.
   B.   Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a hearing officer
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Board.
   C.   The powers and duties of the hearing officer shall include the
authority to:
      1.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the code violations;
      2.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives, issue
subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearings;
      3.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings;
      4.   Weigh the evidence presented at hearings based on relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony;
      5.   Make ultimate findings and determinations, based on the relevant and
competence evidence presented at a hearing, of whether a code violation exists;
and
      6.   Impose penalties consistent with the applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation.
   D.   The determination of the hearing officer shall be in writing and shall
include a written finding of fact, decision, and order, including the fine,
penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply.
   E.   The hearing officer shall not have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation.
   F.   The hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois for at least three (3) years and must successfully complete a
formal training program, which includes the following:
      1.   Instructions on rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
that will be conducted;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that will be
adjudicated;
      3.   Observation of similar administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   G.   The process for building code and nuisance administrative adjudication
may be consolidated and organized in conjunction with the process for general
administrative adjudication provided in this chapter. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   When a City official with authority to enforce City building codes and
nuisances makes a determination that a violation has occurred, he or she shall
note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that
indicates (i) the name and address of the defendant, (ii) the type and nature
of the violation or nuisance, (iii) the date and time the violation or nuisance
was observed, and (iv) the names of witnesses to the violation or nuisance. The
violation report form shall be forwarded to the code hearing division where a
docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a hearing date
shall be noted in the blank space provided for that purpose on the form. The
hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days
after the notice is served. One copy of the violation notice and report form
shall be maintained in the files of the code hearing division and shall be part
of the record of the hearing; one copy of the report form shall be returned to
the individual representing the City in the case so that he or she may prepare
evidence of the code violation or nuisance for presentation at the hearing on
the date indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served either in
person or by first class mail to the defendant along with a summons commanding
the defendant to appear at the hearing.
   B.   The notice of an adjudicatory hearing shall include the type and nature
of the building code violation or nuisance to be adjudicated, the date and
location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
   C.   Parties may request in writing to the hearing officer before the date
set for an administrative hearing that the hearing officer issue subpoenas to
direct attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of
relevant documents.
   D.   At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an opportunity to give
testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel.
   E.   If the person who has been charged with the building code violation or
nuisance cannot be found or served by first class mail, the City may post the
notice on the front door or in some other prominent place on the property on
which the code violation or nuisance occurred, and the posting shall be deemed
sufficient notice. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-5: PRIMA FACIE CASE; RULES OF EVIDENCE; STANDARD OF PROOF:
   A.   A prima facie case may be established if the notice served in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter is certified by the issuer.
   B.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
adjudicatory hearing process. Any evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted,
but only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their affairs.
   C.   The burden of proof required to sustain a conviction of building code
violation or nuisance shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 21-
0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-6: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two (2) working days
prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the case may,
at the request of either party, direct witness to appear and give testimony at
the hearing. If on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his or her
attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default
and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of a code violation or nuisance in the defendant's absence. (Ord. 21-
0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-7: CONTINUANCES:
No continuance shall be authorized by the hearing officer except in cases in
which a continuance is necessary to protect the rights of the parties. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-8: RIGHTS OF PROPERTY OCCUPANTS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to take action or threaten to
take action for eviction, forcible entry and detainer or similar proceeding or
other adverse action against an occupant of property solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a building code and nuisance
administrative adjudication hearing. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-9: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS AND NUISANCES:
It shall be a defense to an owner of property for which a charge of a building
code violation or nuisance under this chapter is made if the owner of the
property, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to
the hearing officer's satisfaction that:
   A.   The code violation or nuisance alleged in the notice does not in fact
exist, or at the time of the hearing, the violation or nuisance has been
remedied or removed;
   B.   The code violation or nuisance alleged in the notice has been caused by
the current property occupants and that, in spite of reasonable attempts by the
owner to maintain the dwelling free of such violation or nuisance, the current
occupants continue to cause the violation or nuisances; or
   C.   An occupant of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner or his or
her agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the code
violation or nuisance. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-10: FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall make a determination
on the basis of the relevant and competent evidence presented at the hearing
whether or not a building code violation or nuisance exists. The determination
shall be in writing and shall be designated as findings, decision and order.
The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing officer's findings
of fact, a decision whether or not a building code violation or nuisance exists
based upon the findings of fact, and an order. If a violation or nuisance is
found, the order may impose a fine, direct the defendant to correct the
violation or abate the nuisance and/or impose such other sanction as may be
appropriate as allowed by law consistent with City ordinances. If a violation
or nuisance is not found, the order shall include a statement to that effect
and dismiss the case, in the event a violation or nuisance is not proved. A
copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the owner within
five (5) days after they are issued by first class mail. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-
2021)
14-5-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-12: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that remains unpaid after the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law shall be considered a debt due and owing to
the City and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a code
violation, the City may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of the
Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County, Illinois for the purpose of
obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the City from the consolidation of multiple findings,
decisions, and orders against a person in such a proceeding.
   C.   Issues such as whether a violation occurred and the penalties that are
imposed may not be raised in any enforcement proceeding after the period for
judicial review has passed. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-13: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER:
An order to correct a code violation or abate a nuisance and the fine or other
sanctions imposed by the City as a result of a finding of a code violation or
nuisance under this chapter shall attach to the property as well as to the
owner of the property, so that a finding of a code violation against one owner
cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner.
Any subsequent transferee or owner of property takes subject to the findings,
decision and order of a hearing officer under this chapter. (Ord. 21-0109, 1-
11-2021)
14-5-14: VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE:
   A.   A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its
agencies, including without limitation the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct City health and safety code
violations.
   B.   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord.
21-0109, 1-11-2021)
14-5-15: OTHER METHODS OF CODE AND ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administration
adjudication that were authorized by state law, including the City of East
Dubuque ordinances, and in existence prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter and which may continue thereafter. (Ord. 21-
0109, 1-11-2021)
TITLE 15
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
15-1-1: Title
15-1-2: Intent And Purpose
15-1-3: Rules And Definitions
15-1-4: Scope Of Regulations; Interpretation
15-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the EAST DUBUQUE ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
15-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following general purposes:
   A.   To divide the city and such adjacent unincorporated areas as permitted
by statute into zoning districts and regulating within these the location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings,
structures, and land.
   B.   To regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas and to control the
area of open spaces around such buildings or structures so as to provide
adequate light, air, privacy, convenience of access, and the protection of the
public health.
   C.   To protect and preserve the character, value, and stability of the
residential, business, industrial, agricultural, and public areas within the
city and such adjacent unincorporated areas as may be permitted by state
statutes, and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas.
   D.   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with, or
deleterious to, the character of development or intended uses within specified
zoning districts.
   E.   To prevent additions to, and alterations and remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder.
   F.   To limit congestion of public streets and protect public health,
safety, pedestrian rights, convenience and general welfare by regulating
vehicular parking areas and loading areas.
   G.   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings, and structures which are adversely affecting the character, the
intended use, or the value of desirable development as specified for each
district.
   H.   To designate public areas and land for aesthetic, cultural, and
recreational purposes for the health, welfare, comfort, safety, and enjoyment
of people, conveniently located and easily accessible to residents of all ages.
   I.   To secure safety from fire, explosives, noxious fumes, panic, and other
dangers in the interest of public health, safety, comfort, and general welfare.
   J.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city.
   K.   To provide penalties for violation of this title as may be permitted by
state statutes.
   L.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein so as to ensure the rights of equal
treatment, due process, and the public interest and in accordance with state
statutes.
   M.   To attain the objectives established by the comprehensive plan for the
future development of East Dubuque.
   N.   To control flood plain uses such as fill, dumping, storage of
materials, structures, buildings, and any other works which, acting alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, will cause damaging flood
heights and velocities by obstructing flows and reducing valley storage.
   O.   To control development which will, when acting alone or in combination
with similar development, cause flood losses if public streets, sewer, water,
and other utilities must be extended below the flood level to serve the
development.
   P.   To control development which will, when acting alone or in combination
with similar development, create an additional burden to the public to pay the
costs of rescue, relief, emergency preparedness measures, sandbagging, pumping,
and temporary dikes or levees. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-1-3: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel";
the word "building" includes all other structures of every kind, regardless of
similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases
"arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied
for".
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:
   A.   An "accessory building or use" is one which:
      1.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use.
      2.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building
or principal use served.
      3.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use served.
      4.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
      5.   For a minor accessory building, occupies not more than five percent
(5%) of the area of the lot on which the principal building is situated, and:
         a.   In a residentially zoned district shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height (to the top of the structure), and
         b.   In all other zoned districts is not higher than the principal
building.
      6.   For a major accessory building, occupies not more than ten percent
(10%) of the area of the lot on which the principal building is situated, and:
         a.   In a residentially zoned district shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height (to the top of the structure), and
         b.   Cannot exceed ninety percent (90%) of the footprint of the
principal building.
         c.   In all other zoned districts is not higher than the principal
building.
      7.   Limits accessory buildings so no more than two (2) accessory
structures shall be permitted on any residential lot less than five thousand
(5,000) square feet. No more than three (3) on any zoning lot less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet and no more than four (4) on any zoning lot more
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   An "accessory use" in residential zoning districts includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
      1.   A swimming pool, private greenhouse, gazebo and pergolas. Gazebo and
pergolas are limited to two hundred (200) square feet.
      2.   A detached private residential garage, shed or building for domestic
storage.
      3.   Incinerators and air conditioning units incidental to residential
use.
      4.   A children's "playhouse", defined as a freestanding structure,
exclusively for the use of children.
      5.   A "tree house", defined as a structure that utilizes one or more
trees for structural support exclusively. Engineered design if structure is
over one hundred (100) square feet.
   C.   An "accessory use" in business or commercial zoning districts includes,
but is not limited to, the storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on
the same lot with any retail service or business use, unless storage is
excluded by the district regulations. No accessory structure shall be
constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and platted.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Shall imply any building or structure
existing or erected on land used principally for agricultural purposes, with
the exception of dwelling units.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities.
"Agriculture" shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to
swine or other animals, the commercial feeding of animals on open lots where no
feed is raised on the premises, or the commercial feeding of fur-bearing
animals, poultry broilers, or laboratory animals such as mice, rabbits, rats,
etc.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented, for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT, OR AIRCRAFT STOP): Any premises which are
used or intended for use for the landing and take off of aircraft, and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for buildings incidental
to aircraft services, together with all buildings and structures thereon.
ALLEY: A narrow thoroughfare upon which abuts generally the rear of premises or
upon which service entrances of buildings abut, and which is not generally used
as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, or which is not used for
general traffic circulation or which is not in excess of thirty feet (30') in
width at its intersection with a street.
APARTMENT: One or more rooms in an apartment building or combination apartment
and commercial building, arranged, intended or designed or occupied as a
dwelling unit of a single family, an individual, or a group of individuals.
APARTMENT BUILDING: A multiple-family dwelling originally designed and
constructed to accommodate five (5) or more apartments, designed with more than
one dwelling unit connecting to a common corridor or entrance way in contrast
to single- or two-family dwellings converted for multiple-family use or
attached row dwellings (party-wall type) as defined herein.
AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair, and overall painting of vehicles.
AUTO REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service
to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under "automobile
repair, major".
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where no repair
work is done except for minor incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to
be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: A building, or portion thereof, containing facilities for
washing more than two (2) automobiles, using production line methods with a
chain conveyor, blower, steam- cleaning device, or other mechanical devices.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing,
sale, or offering for sale at retail to the public, automobile fuels located
wholly within the lot lines; lubricating oil or grease for the operation of
automobiles; and the sale and installation of tires, batteries, other minor
accessories, and minor auto repair, but not including major auto repairs,
automobile wrecking, automobile sales, or automobile laundries; provided,
however, that the washing of individual automobiles where no chain conveyor is
employed may be included. When the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale of
motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage.
"Automobile service station" shall not include the sale or storage of trucks or
"junkers" as defined herein, except trucks used in the operation of the service
station, and shall not include a bulk plant.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled,
obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
BASEMENT: A story having part but not more than one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation if subdivided and used for dwelling purposes other than by a janitor
employed on the premises.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Sign, Advertising.
BLOCK: That property on one side of a street between two (2) adjacent streets
which intersect the street in question.
BOARD: The zoning board of appeals.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or premises where meals are regularly served by
prearrangement for definite periods of compensation for three (3) or more
persons, not a family, but not exceeding twelve (12) persons, not open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels or restaurants open to
transients.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels, and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of such building shall be deemed as a separate building.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessory buildings, excluding only cornices projecting not more than twenty
four inches (24"), open steps, and terraces.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space, said open space being
on the same zoning lot as the building.
BUILDING LINE: A line between which and any street line of a district, lot,
tract, or parcel of land, no buildings or parts of buildings may be erected,
altered, or maintained.
BUILDING LINE SETBACK: The distance between the building line and the street
line in a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: See definition of Nonconforming Building.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which a principal use on the
zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, UNIT GROUP: Two (2) or more buildings (other than dwellings) grouped
upon a lot and held under one ownership, such as universities, hospitals,
institutions, churches and temples, and industrial plants.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and location of same with respect to one another and includes the
following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or to other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings; and
   E.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
BULK STORAGE PLANT: Any place where flammable liquids are received by tanker,
barge, pipeline, tank car or tank vessel or truck and are stored or blended in
bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank/truck, pipeline, tank
car, tank vessel or container.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
BUSINESS OR COMMERCE: The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, or merchandise; or the maintenance or operation of offices or
recreational or amusement enterprises.
CAPACITY IN PERSONS: The "capacity in persons" of an establishment or use is
the maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of the services (or
goods) of such establishment, at any one time, with reasonable comfort.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below the curb
level or below the highest level of the adjoining land. A "cellar" shall not be
counted as a story for height measurement.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water. Channel flow
thus is that water which is flowing within the limits of the defined channel.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER: An establishment where patients are admitted
for special study and treatment by two (2) or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates, practicing medicine together, with the treatment
or care in the building limited to periods of less than forty eight (48) hours
in any week.
CLOSED CUP FLASH POINT: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid,
under prescribed conditions, will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily.
CLUB: An association of persons for some common purpose which is jointly
supported and meets periodically, but not including groups organized primarily
to render service which is customarily carried on as a business.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot, Corner.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated to "decibels".
DEPTH OF REAR YARD: The mean horizontal distance between the rear line of the
building and the center line of the alley, where an alley exists, otherwise the
rear lot line.
DEVELOPMENT, CLUSTER: A planned development or subdivision of a tract of land
into residential lots. It shall meet the minimum acreage requirements of
planned developments. The individual lots shall have areas no smaller than
eighty seven and one-half percent (871/2%) of the area required by the
regulations of the zone in which the land lies. However, the total number of
lots shall not exceed the number that would be permitted if the area had been
developed with lot sizes as required by the zoning district. The residential
area thus created shall consist of at least twelve and one-half percent (121/
2%) of the gross area of the tract or parcel. This residential area shall be
dedicated to the city of East Dubuque for public use or otherwise developed as
required by the city council.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer or
mobile home, designed or used exclusively for a residential occupancy,
including one-family dwelling units, but not including hotels, boarding or
lodging houses.
DWELLING, ATTACHED, (GROUP, ROW OR TOWN HOUSES): A dwelling joined to two (2)
other dwellings by party walls.
DWELLING, CONVERTED: Any building which was originally designed and constructed
as a one-, two-, or three-family dwelling, but which has been changed or
altered by the construction of additional dwelling units to provide for more
families than the original building.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling entirely surrounded by open space, said open
space being on the same zoning lot as the dwelling.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling
units, designed with more than one dwelling unit connecting to a common
corridor or entrance way, originally constructed for said purpose; and not
including converted dwellings or attached row dwellings (party-wall type) as
defined herein.
DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED: A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party
wall.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing accommodations for and occupied
by one family only, either attached, detached, or semi-detached.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment-hotel designed for
occupancy by one family for living purposes and having its own permanently
installed cooking and sanitary facilities.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: Public, parochial, charitable, or nonprofit junior
college, college, or university, other than trade or business schools,
including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters,
dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental facilities for
students, teachers, and employees.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one room, exclusive of bathroom,
kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove, directly off the principal room,
providing such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five (125)
square feet in area.
ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTION: A building or group of buildings devoted to and
supported by charity.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A separate place of business having the following
characteristics:
   A.   The ownership and management of all operations conducted within such
establishment are separate and distinct from the ownership and management of
operations conducted within other establishments on the same or adjacent zoning
lot.
   B.   Direct public access to such "business establishment" is separate and
distinct from direct access to any other "business establishment".
FAMILY: One or more individuals occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household unit.
FARM DWELLING: The principal dwelling unit (see definition of "dwelling"
herein) on a parcel of land used for agriculture. This dwelling shall be
occupied by the owner or his tenant who is actively engaged in agriculture as
his primary source of income.
FARMSTEAD: That area of an agricultural use area which contains the farm
dwelling and accessory buildings or structures but not including areas used for
crops or animal pasturage.
FLOOD: A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water
overtopping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the flood plain outside the floodway.
FLOOD PLAIN: The land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by flood water, including, but not limited to, the regulatory
flood.
FLOOD PROFILE: A graph or a longitudinal profile showing the relationship of
the water-surface elevation of a flood event to location along a stream or
river.
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes, or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the reduction or
elimination of flood damages to properties, water, and sanitary facilities,
structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and those portions of the flood plain
adjoining the channel that are required to carry and discharge the flood water
or flood flows of any river or stream, including, but not limited to, flood
flows associated with the regulatory flood.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Floor Area Ratio): The "floor area" of a building
is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building
measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line
of walls separating two (2) buildings. The "floor area" of a building shall
include basement floor area when more than one-half (1/2) of the basement
height is above the established curb level or above the finished lot grade
level where no curb level has been established, elevator shafts and stairwells
at each floor, floor space used for mechanical equipment, except equipment,
open or enclosed, located on the roof, penthouses, attic space having headroom
of seven feet six inches (7'6"), or more, interior balconies and mezzanines,
enclosed porches, and floor area devoted to accessory uses.
However, any space devoted to off-street parking or loading shall not be
included in "floor area". The "floor area" of structures devoted to bulk
storage of materials, including, but not limited to, grain elevators and
petroleum storage tanks, shall be determined on the basis of height in feet,
i.e., ten feet (10') in height shall equal one floor.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements):
"Floor area", when prescribed as the basis of measurement for off-street
parking spaces and loading berths for any use, shall mean the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion thereof,
devoted to such use, including accessory storage areas located within selling
or working space such as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor
area devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods,
or to business or professional offices.
However, "floor area", for the purpose of measurement for off-street parking
spaces shall not include: floor area devoted primarily to storage purposes
(except as otherwise noted herein); floor areas devoted to off-street parking
or loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space; or
basement floor areas other than areas devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The "floor area ratio" of the building or buildings on
any zoning lot is the floor area of the building or buildings on that zoning
lot divided by the area of such zoning lot, or in planned developments, by the
net site area. The "floor area ratio" requirements, as set forth under each
zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for the
building or buildings (total floor area of both principal and accessory
buildings) in direct ratio to the gross area of the zoning lot.
FREE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by a material which burns
actively, and easily supports combustion.
FREQUENCY: Signifies the number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and
is an index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting on one side of a street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets, measured along the line of the street, or if
dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between an
intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, BUS: Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three
(3) or more passenger motor buses or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK: A building which is used or intended to be used for the
storage of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of the main building
designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of passenger
automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing, and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck-trailers, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GRADE, STREET: The elevation of the established street in front of the building
measured at curb level at the center of such front. Where no street grade has
been established, the city engineer shall establish such street grade or its
equivalent for the purpose of this title.
GUEST HOUSE: Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the main building for use by temporary guests of the
occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities, not
be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the front. Where a building is located upon a
terrace or slope, the height shall be measured from the average grade at the
front of the building.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for not less than
twenty four (24) hours in any week, of three (3) or more nonrelated individuals
suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical
conditions.
The term "hospital", as used in this title does not apply to institutions
operating primarily for treatment of insane persons, drug addicts, liquor
addicts, or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients, and the
term "hospital" shall not include convalescent, nursing, shelter, or boarding
homes.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public in contradistinction
to a boarding house, a lodging house, or an apartment house, which terms are
separately defined.
HOTEL APARTMENT: A building containing dwelling units or individual guests
rooms, the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service
may be provided, but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
HOUSEHOLDER: The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or lessee
thereof.
INCOMBUSTIBLE: Implies materials which do not in themselves constitute an
active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will not ignite nor
actively support combustion during an exposure for five (5) minutes at a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) shall be
designated "incombustible".
INNER COURT: Any court other than an outer court of a "yard" as defined in this
section.
INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL: See definition of Educational Institution.
INSTITUTION, ELEEMOSYNARY: See definition of Eleemosynary Institution.
JUNKYARD: Any parcel of land where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or
handled, including auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses
taking place entirely within a completely enclosed building.
JUNKER: An automobile, truck, or other motor vehicle which has been damaged to
such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own power and will require
major repairs before being made usable, or such a vehicle which does not comply
with state or city vehicle laws or ordinances.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than
four (4) dogs or cats, or other household domestic animals are kept or on which
more than two (2) such animals are boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing
and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
LENGTH OF OUTER COURT: The mean horizontal distance between the open and closed
ends of the court.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: A trafficway, including expressways and toll roads for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same
except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open, hard-surfaced area of land,
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers, to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space
shall be not less than ten feet in width, forty five feet in length, and
fourteen feet in height (10' x 45' x 14'), exclusive of access aisles and
maneuvering space.
LODGE OR FRATERNAL ORDER: A hall or meeting place of a local branch or the
members composing such a branch of a fraternal order, or society, such as the
Masons, Knights of Columbus, Moose, American Legion and other similar
organizations. It may be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises,
providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The
sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests may be allowed,
provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common
objective by the organization, and further provided, that such sale of
alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal, state,
county, and city laws.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory
buildings and uses and including the open spaces required under these
regulations. A "lot" may be land so recorded on the records of the recorder of
deeds or in the office of the registrar of titles of Jo Daviess County,
Illinois, but it may include parts of or a combination of such ground as used
for only one improvement, and resubdivided or combined and properly recorded.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) streets or a lot
bounded on two (2) sides by a curbing street and any two (2) chords of which
form an angle of one hundred twenty degrees (120°) or less measured on the lot
side.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets
as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The "rear lot line" is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Jo Daviess County, pursuant
to statute.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building and overhangs the public way.
MICRON: A unit of length equal to one-thousandth part of one millimeter (0.001
mm).
MOBILE HOME DWELLING: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways on its own wheels or
on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking or assembly operations, connections to utilities, and the
like. A recreation travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile home.
MODERATE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by a material which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot and designed for use by transient automobile tourists, with garage
attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit. A "motel"
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of
linen, telephone, and secretarial or desk service, and the use and upkeep of
furniture. In a "motel", less than fifty percent (50%) of the living and
sleeping accommodations are occupied or designed for occupancy by persons other
than transient automobile tourists.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building in which freight, brought to said building
by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing by motor truck.
MOTOR TRUCK REPAIR SHOP: A premises where motor trucks, tractors, truck-
trailers and industrial and commercial vehicles in excess of one and one-half
(11/2) tons' capacity, or their bodies, are overhauled, rebuilt, or repaired.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor- trailer, truck-
trailer, trailer, or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR: See definition of Auto Repair, Major.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR: See definition of Auto Repair, Minor.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or address of a building or the name
of an occupant thereof and/or the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this title, which was designed, erected, or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
of adoption of this title and which does not conform with the use regulations
of the district in which it is located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Matter which is capable of causing injury to
living organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental
effects upon the physical or economic well- being of individuals.
NURSERY, DAY: An institution providing care for three (3) or more children
under the age of four (4) years for periods of more than four (4) hours but not
exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing daycare service and schooling for
children from four (4) to six (6) years of age.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: See definition of Rest Home Or Nursing Home.
OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert,
building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in,
along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood
hazard area which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of
water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water, or that is placed where the flow of water might carry the same
downstream to the damage of life or property.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound according to pitch.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American standards association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
OUTER COURT: A court other than a yard having at least one side thereof opening
onto a street, alley, or yard or other permanent open space.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
alley, used for the parking of private passenger automobiles only of occupants
of the building or buildings for which the parking area is developed and is
necessary.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one- half (11/2) tons' capacity, and
available to the public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation
to clients or customers.
PARKING AREA, TRUCK: Any land used or intended to be used for the storage or
parking of trucks, tractors, and truck-trailers, and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading and which exceed one and one-half (11/
2) tons in capacity.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a public or private parking area of
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'), exclusive of access drives or aisles,
ramps, columns, or office and work areas, for the storage of one-passenger
automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material, other than water, which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
PEDESTRIANWAY, PUBLIC: Any walk, path, stairway, plaza, court, mall or other
way open to the public and used exclusively or primarily by pedestrians.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or
heat generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or buildings.
PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER: Any commercial development, consisting of one or more
buildings containing two (2) or more stores or offices, with an aggregate gross
floor space of more than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet, which development
may be planned or developed as a coordinated unit or which development may be
characterized by an integrated arrangement of stores, offices, buildings, and
facilities. A "planned business center" shall be considered as a single unit
for all purposes within the meaning and scope of this title, and shall be
permitted only by special permit as a special use in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land which is developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, which includes two (2) or more principal buildings, and
which is at least twenty (20) acres in area. In residential districts, said
"planned development" includes a group housing project (whether separately
located or separated only, but completely, by firewalls) where the existing or
contemplated street or streets and lot layouts make it impractical to apply the
bulk regulations of this title to the individual units in such housing project.
PLAYHOUSE: A freestanding structure exclusively for the use of children.
Maximum height not to exceed fifteen feet (15') from adjacent grade to the peak
of the roof, not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet or five percent (5%)
of the land bulk requirement, whichever is less and no closer than ten feet
(10') from the principal structure.
PORCH: A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any facility for which the city of East Dubuque, or other
municipal body, may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and
operation or which is constructed for general public use or benefit.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: Any publicly owned open area including, but not limited to,
the following: parks, playgrounds, school sites, parkways, and streets. The
term "public" shall apply to the provision of a service to ten (10) or more
zoning lots when serving an industrial district, regardless of whether said
industrial district is in one tract or subdivision.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to furnish,
under public regulation, to the public, electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
telegraph, transportation, water, or sewerage systems.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, or water towers.
RESIDUAL AREA: That part of a tract of land which remains for public parks,
schools, or recreation purposes where the subdivision or development of said
tract includes dwelling units located in a cluster or on lots which have less
area than required by the zoning district in which the development is located,
subject to the definition requirements of this title for "cluster
subdivisions".
REST HOME OR NURSING HOME: A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm. Such home does not contain equipment for surgical care or for
treatment of disease or injury, and is not primarily developed for mental
patients or alcoholics.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building, or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation for three (3) or more persons,
including a cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom, and dining room.
RINGELMANN CHART: One which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
gray for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke - smoke
density.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number appearing on the Ringelmann chart ascribed by the
observer to the density of the smoke emission. Where the density or light
obstructing capacity of the smoke, as observed, falls between two (2)
consecutive Ringelmann numbers, the lower Ringelmann number shall be considered
the density of the smoke observed.
SCHOOL: A public or private institution which offers instructions in any of the
branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public schools
under the Illinois school code 1 , including prekindergarten, kindergarten,
elementary school, and junior and senior high schools, but excluding trade,
business, or commercial schools.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the street wall of a building
and the street property line.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
SIGN, ADVERTISING; OFF PREMISES: An off premises advertising sign is a sign
which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment
conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises where such sign is
located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any revolving, illuminated
sign shall be considered a "flashing sign".
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The "gross surface area of a sign" shall be the
entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits
of such sign and in no case passing through or between any adjacent elements of
same. However, such perimeter shall not include any structural or framing
elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral part
of the display.
SMOKE: Any visible discharge into the air caused by the release of particulate
matter.
SMOKE UNIT: The number obtained when the smoke density in the Ringelmann number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it was observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire
observation period.
SOUND LEVEL: The "sound level" of an operation or use is the intensity of
sound, measured in decibels, produced by such operation or use.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of intensity of sound.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provision of this title.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is not a floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an
additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF: A "half story" is that portion of a building under a gable, hip,
or mansard roof, the wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite
exterior walls, are not more than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the
finished floor of such story. In the case of one-family dwellings and multiple-
family dwellings less than three (3) stories in height, a half story in a
sloping roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this title. In
the case of multiple-family dwellings three (3) or more stories in height, a
half story shall be counted as a story.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public highway, freeway, or
roadway purposes or subject to public easements thereof.
STREET LINE: The division between private property and a dedicated street or
way, usually uninterrupted from corner to corner in any given block.
STREET, PLATTED: A public easement or property dedicated or intended as a
street which has not been improved or open to vehicular traffic.
STREET WALL: That wall or part of a wall of a building or that part of the wall
or supports of a porch or other structure nearest to and most nearly parallel
with the street, extending more than four feet six inches (4'6") above the
finished grade. The front street wall shall be that wall most nearly parallel
to the shortest lot line along a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts and pergolas.
SUBDIVISION, CLUSTER: See definition of Development, Cluster.
TERRACE, OPEN AND PATIO: A level plane or platform which, for the purpose of
this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the principal structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
THREE-COMPONENT MEASURING SYSTEM: Denotes instrumentation which can measure
earthborne vibrations in three (3) directions; that is, vibration occurring in
a horizontal as well as a vertical plane.
THROUGH LOT: A lot which abuts two (2) parallel, public streets or abuts two
(2) public streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. The
yard that abuts a public street and is considered its principal frontage shall
be the front yard. The yard that abuts a public street and is not considered
its principal frontage shall be the rear yard with the exception that a front
yard(s) has been established along the same public street block and on the same
side of the street and has been enforced as a front yard(s). If a front yard(s)
has been established along the same public street block and on the same side of
the street and has been enforced as a front yard(s), then the yard that abuts a
public street and is not considered its principal frontage shall also be a
front yard.
TOURIST COURT, TOURIST HOME: See definition of Motel.
TOXIC MATERIAL OR MATTER: Those materials which are capable of causing injury
to living organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power used or adaptable for living, sleeping,
business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks,
skids, jacks, horses, or skirting, which does not meet building code
requirements and has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other
devices for transporting the structure from place to place. The term "trailer"
shall include "camp car" and "housecar". A permanent foundation shall not
change its character unless the entire structure is erected in accordance with
the city building code.
TRAILER, HOUSE OR MOBILE HOME: Any "trailer" as defined herein, used for
residential purposes.
TREE HOUSE: A structure that utilizes one or more trees for structural support
exclusively. Maximum height not to exceed fifteen feet (15') from adjacent
grade to the peak of the roof, not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet or
five percent (5%) of the land bulk requirements, whichever is less and no
closer than ten feet (10') from the principal structure.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged, or
intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or leased.
USE, PERMITTED: A "permitted use" is a use which may be lawfully established in
a particular district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements,
regulations, and performance standards (if any) of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: A "principal use" is the main use of land or building as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use. A "principal use" may be
either "permitted" or "special".
USE, SPECIAL: See definition of Special Use.
USED CAR LOT: A zoning lot on which used or new cars, trailers, or trucks are
displayed for sale or trade.
VIBRATION: The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth.
WIDTH OF LOT: See definition of Lot Width.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a lot line
and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot in
accordance with the setback requirements of this title. See definition of
Setback.
YARD, REAR: An open space (unoccupied except by accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: An open space between the side of a building and the side lot line
between the front and rear yards.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: Refers to the zoning board of appeals of the city of
East Dubuque, Illinois.
ZONING LOT: A plot of ground, made up of one or more parcels, which is or may
be occupied by a use, building, or buildings, including the open spaces
required by this title.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. Ord., 2-16-1998; 2001
Code; Ord. 16-0110, 1-4-2016; Ord. 19-1109, 11-4-2019; Ord. 20-0315, 3-11-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
15-1-4: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS; INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with, abrogate, amend, or repeal in any ordinance,
rules, or regulations previously adopted and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this title or which shall be adopted pursuant to law relating to
the use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this title to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties; except, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the
use of buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such
easements, covenants, or other agreements, the provisions of this title shall
control. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
15-2-1: Districts Established
15-2-2: Zoning Map
15-2-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
15-2-4: Determination Of District Boundaries
15-2-5: Jurisdiction; Contiguous Unincorporated Land
15-2-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   SU - Special Use
   SU/B - Special Use Business
   P1 - City Owned Property
   P2 - Federal/State/School/Church/Library
Residential Districts:
   SR - Single-family residential district
   LR - Low density residential district
   GR - General residential district
Business Districts:
   GB - General business district
   AB - Automobile-oriented business district
Industrial Districts:
   GI - General industrial district
   IP - Industrial park district
Conservation Districts:
   AG - Agricultural district
   RE - Recreation district
(Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. Ord. 19-1209, 12-16-2019)
15-2-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Incorporation Of Map: The locations and boundaries of the districts
established herein are shown upon the zoning map which is hereby incorporated
into this title. The zoning map together with all notations, references, and
other information shown thereon, and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of
this title and shall have the same force and effect as if the zoning map,
together with all notations, references and other information shown thereon,
were fully set forth and described herein.
   B.   Annual Publication Of Map:
      1.   The city shall publish the zoning map, together with all notations,
references, and other information shown thereon, annually unless there have
been no changes affecting the information shown thereon since the last
publication. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
      2.   The map published by the city shall be the official zoning map, and
if changes or amendments are made prior to the annual publication, a certified,
corrected official zoning map shall be published, which shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of any area, building, structure, or
use within the city and its zoning limits. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
15-2-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Land hereafter annexed to the city that is not classified or otherwise
regulated by this title shall be classified as SR (single-family residential)
until such time as the city council designates the permitted classification of
the land in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-2-4: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Center Lines Of Public Ways: Boundaries indicated as approximately
following the center lines of streets, alleys, public ways, or highways, shall
be interpreted as following such center lines.
   B.   Platted Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following
platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   Corporate Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
corporate limits of the city shall be construed as following such limits.
   D.   Lot Of Record: Where a district boundary line divides a lot of record
in existence at the time of passage of this title, the entire lot may be
construed as being within the less restricted district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-2-5: JURISDICTION; CONTIGUOUS UNINCORPORATED LAND:
The powers, limits, and duties established by this title may be exercised
within the corporate limits of the city and within contiguous unincorporated
territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate
limits of the city and in accordance with applicable state statutes. (Ord., 4-
26-1978)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-3-1: Intent And Purpose
15-3-2: Issuance Of Permits And Certificates
15-3-3: Maintenance Of Required Space
15-3-4: Lot Area And Dimensions
15-3-5: Access To Buildings
15-3-6: Buildings Under Construction
15-3-7: Accessory Buildings
15-3-8: Home Occupations
15-3-9: Adult-Use Cannabis
15-3-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish basic recommendations
which apply to the interpretation and administration of this title and which
apply to construction and/or use of land within all zoning districts. (Ord., 4-
26-1978)
15-3-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   No application for any permit or certificate established and/or
required by this title shall be granted or issued in a manner contrary to the
provisions of this title or for the erection, construction, moving, alteration,
demolition, or occupancy of any building or land contrary to the provisions of
this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. Ord. 16-0110, 1-4-2016)
   B.   Every permit issued by the city shall expire by limitation under the
provisions of this chapter after one hundred eighty (180) days and at that time
all work must cease. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an
extension for another one hundred eighty (180) days at no additional charge
before work may be recommenced. The permit shall then expire after the
additional one hundred eighty (180) days and the permittee may renew the permit
to continue construction providing they reapply in writing and pay one-half (1/
2) the amount of the original permit fee. (Ord. 16-0110, 1-4-2016)
15-3-3: MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
   A.   Transfer Of Space: No space allocated to a building for the purpose of
complying with the yard, open space, or lot area requirements of this title
shall thereafter, by reason of change in ownership or for any other reason, be
used to satisfy the yard, open space, or lot area requirements of any other
building or group of buildings unless in so doing all buildings or groups of
buildings involved have sufficient yard, open space, or lot areas remaining to
satisfy this title.
   B.   Reduction Of Space: No usable open space, off street loading space
existing or provided hereafter for any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set for such usable open space, parking space,
or loading space, nor further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-3-4: LOT AREA AND DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Combination Of Lots: When two (2) or more lots or parcels of land, each
of which lacks adequate area and dimensions to qualify for a permitted use
under the requirements of the use district in which they are located, are
contiguous and are held in one ownership, they shall be combined as one or more
zoning lots of proper size.
   B.   Use Of Undersized Lots: Any single lot of record or parcel of land not
contiguous to others in the same ownership which was of record at the time of
adoption of this title that does not meet the requirements for minimum lot
width, depth, or area may be utilized; provided, that the yards or usable open
space are not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the minimum required.
   C.   Two Or More Buildings On A Lot: If two (2) or more buildings, other
than in a planned unit development as defined in chapter 5 of this title, are
built upon a single lot or parcel of land, each building shall satisfy the
requirements of this title in the same manner and degree as if they were on two
(2) or more separate lots or parcels.
   D.   Modification Of And Exception To Provisions: The zoning board of
appeals will forward its recommendation to the governing body on all requests
for modification and exception to the strict requirements of this title where
it can be shown that compliance therewith would work an undue hardship upon the
petitioner. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-3-5: ACCESS TO BUILDINGS:
Except as otherwise provided for in this title, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot, or parcel of land, which abuts upon a public
street or permanent easement and shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25') unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of
this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-3-6: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of any building or structure upon which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this title and upon
which building or structure actual construction has been diligently carried on,
and provided further, that such building or structure shall be completed within
one year from the date of adoption of this title. If such structure, when
completed and occupied, is in conflict with any section of this title, it shall
be classified as a nonconforming structure subject to the regulations of
chapter 4 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-3-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
An accessory building shall not be constructed nearer than five feet (5') to
any side or rear lot line, unless such rear lot line is congruent with the
right of way line of a public alley or unless such building is directly
connected by a party wall to an adjacent structure on another lot, nor shall it
be constructed nearer any front street right of way line than is the principal
building on the lot. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-3-8: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   "Home occupations" are permitted as accessory uses within principal
residential dwellings, such as single-family home or apartment, provided the
home occupation meets the following provisions and the requirements of the
zoning district in which the home is located. A "home occupation" shall not be
permitted that:
      1.   Changes the outside appearance of the dwelling or is visible from
the street.
      2.   Generates traffic, parking, sewerage or water use in excess of what
is normal in the residential neighborhood.
      3.   Creates a hazard to person or property, results in electrical
interference, or becomes a nuisance.
      4.   Results in outside storage or display of any kind, other than for
personal or seasonal decorations.
      5.   Occupies more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area
of the dwelling unit.
      6.   Requires deliveries of materials to and from the premises involving
the use of vehicles over two (2) tons' hauling capacity, except parcel post or
similar parcel service vehicles.
      7.   Produces noise, vibration, smokes, odors, heat or glare, as a result
of a home occupation, which would exceed that normally produced by a single
residence as determined by the zoning administrator.
      8.   Advertises using other than personal name, phone number, and post
office box.
      9.   Customer and client contact shall primarily be by telephone or mail
and not on the premises of the home occupation, except those home occupations
such as tutoring, teaching, childcare or personal services which cannot be
conducted without personal contact.
      10.   Any use listed as commercial uses permitted in other districts is
prohibited as a home occupation.
   B.   The following are "home occupations" allowed without permits, provided
they meet the qualification under subsection A of this section.
      Art studio, including painting, sculpting and writing.
      Cake decorating.
      Computer programming.
      Consultant services.
      Daycare as long as it does not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the total floor area of the dwelling and meets licensing requirements of the
state.
      Film processing.
      Home cooking and preserving.
      Home crafts including ceramics.
      Home products distributors.
      Income tax preparations.
      Insurance sales.
      Mailing services.
      Sewing and tailoring.
      Snowplowing.
      Teaching and tutoring limited to four (4) persons at one time.
      Telephone answering.
      Typist/stenographer. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Businesses which would require a home occupation permit, while also
meeting the provisions of subsection A of this section include:
      Antique furniture refinishing for resale on the premises or as a service
for the general public.
      Automobile, truck, boat, airplane, snowmobile, and other similar vehicle
repair (though an individual may service their own vehicles providing the
provisions of this section are met) and any stipulations set by the zoning
board of appeals.
      Barber and beauty shops (must be state certified).
      Home therapeutic services (must be state certified). (Ord., 4-26-1978;
amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 05-0216, 2-21-2005)
   D.   Applications for home occupation permits must follow the procedures in
chapter 5 of this title, which require a hearing before the East Dubuque zoning
board of appeals, which may set stipulations not specified in this section. A
permit shall be granted or denied on finding whether the home occupation meets
or does not meet the general provisions of this chapter. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd.
2001 Code)
15-3-9: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this Section
to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the City of East
Dubuque. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
   B.   Special Use: Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment facilities, as
defined herein, requiring approval of a special use in the respective districts
in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 5 of
this Title and subsection C as provided herein.
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance with
Chapter 5 of this Title, the following components of the Adult-Use Cannabis
Facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties:
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, and security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on Chapter 6 and available private
parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan.
      8.   Proposed amendments to setback requirements due to specific
location.
      9.   Compliance with all requirements provided in subsections D, E, F, G,
H, or I below, as applicable.
      10.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Chapter 5 of this Title.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those zoning districts in which an
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Craft Grower shall be classified as “Manufacturing and Industrial Uses” per
Chapter 6, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
Chapter 5 herein.
      4.   The initial permit fee will be fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
with an annual renewal fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall be classified as “Manufacturing and Industrial Uses”
per Chapter 6, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed
through Chapter 5 herein.
      4.   The initial permit fee will be twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) with an annual renewal fee of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing
organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as
authorized in subsection F.5 below in the same tenant space.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by subsection J shall also reflect adequate provisions to respond to
disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site consumption permit shall
be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked following notice and
hearing as provided in Chapter 12 of the City Municipal Code. The initial on-
site consumption permit will have a fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
and an annual renewal fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      5.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “Retail Store” per Chapter 6 of the East Dubuque Municipal
Code, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
Chapter 5 herein.
      6.   Facility may not be located within five thousand feet (5,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing Adult Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
      7.   The initial permit fee will be twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) with an annual renewal fee of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
      8.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   G.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the infusing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct
any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “Manufacturing and Industrial Uses” per Chapter 6 of the East
Dubuque Municipal Code, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may
require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through Section 5 herein.
      4.   The initial permit fee will be fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
with an annual renewal fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   H.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the processing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not
conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the
Act.
      3.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “Manufacturing and Industrial Uses” per Chapter 6 of the East
Dubuque Municipal Code, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may
require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through Chapter 5 herein.
      4.   The initial permit fee will be fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
with an annual renewal fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   I.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Transporting Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “Manufacturing and Industrial Uses” per Chapter 6 of the City
Municipal Code, provided, however, that the City of East Dubuque may require
that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed
through Chapter 5 herein.
      4.   The initial permit fee will be fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
with an annual renewal fee of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City of East Dubuque
affirming compliance with Chapter 5 as provided herein and all other
requirements of the Act.
   J.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an Adult-Use Cannabis Business
Establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   K.   Co-Location of Cannabis Business Establishments. The City may approve
the co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization with an Adult-
Use Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization,
or both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the Special Use criteria
within the East Dubuque Municipal Code. In a co-location, the floor space
requirements of subsections F.3 and G.3 shall not apply, but the co-located
establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant space. (Ord. 19-1109, 11-4-
2019; amd. Ord. 20-0315, 3-11-2020; Ord. 21-0316, 3-18-2021; Ord. 21-1206, 12-
22-2021; Ord. 22-0205, 2-7-2022)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
SECTION:
15-4-1: Intent And Purpose
15-4-2: Continuation Of Nonconforming Situations
15-4-3: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Situations
15-4-4: Change Of Use
15-4-5: Termination And Removal Of Nonconformities
15-4-6: Damage To Or Destruction Of Buildings Or Structures
15-4-7: Additions To Or Enlargement Of Buildings Or Structures
15-4-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to recognize the fact that certain
structures or uses were established prior to the effective date of this title
that would not be permitted by this title. This chapter defines these and sets
up regulations as to how these particular situations may be continued, altered
or expanded. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-4-2: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS:
   A.   Nonconforming Uses: Any lawfully established use of a building,
structure, or land in existence at the effective date of this title, or of
amendments hereto, that does not conform to the use regulations for the
district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and
may be continued except as provided herein.
   B.   Nonconforming Structures: Any lawfully established building or other
structure in existence at the effective date of this title, or amendments
hereto, that does not conform to the height, bulk, area, setback, or other
regulations for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a
nonconforming structure and may continue to be used or occupied except as
otherwise provided herein.
   C.   Nonconforming Projects: Any building or structure for which a permit
has been lawfully granted prior to the effective date of this title, or of
amendments hereto, may be completed in accordance with the approved plans,
provided construction is started within six (6) months and diligently
prosecuted to completion. Such building, structure, or use shall, thereafter,
be a nonconforming use, and such building or structure may be continued except
as otherwise provided herein.
   D.   Exceptions: The following exceptions to the above regulations are
hereby established:
      1.   Any building or structure constructed prior to the year 1961 and
remaining essentially unchanged since that date shall not be classified as a
nonconforming structure but shall be classified as a conforming structure.
(Ord., 4-26-1978)
      2.   Any legal use of a building or structure constructed or adapted for
this use prior to the year 1961 and remaining essentially unchanged from that
date shall not be classified as a nonconforming use and may be continued,
transferred and added to, or enlarged in the same manner as any other special
use and in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
15-5-4 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
15-4-3: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS:
   A.   Abandonment Of Buildings: Whenever a nonconforming use of a building,
structure, or part thereof has been discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part of
an owner to abandon a nonconforming use, such use, after being so discontinued
or abandoned, shall not be reestablished except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   B.   Abandonment Of Land: Whenever a nonconforming use of land has been
discontinued for a period of six (6) months, it shall be considered as an
abandoned use and shall not be reestablished except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which the land is located. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-4-4: CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   Change To Same Or Less Restricted Use: A nonconforming use of any
building, structure, or part thereof may be changed to a use of the same or of
a more restricted character but may not be changed to any less restricted use.
   B.   Reversion To A Nonconforming Use: Whenever any part of a building,
structure, or land occupied by a nonconforming use is changed to, or replaced
by, a conforming use, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by
any nonconforming use. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-4-5: TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Time Period Established: The period of time during which the following
nonconforming situations may continue or remain shall be limited to three (3)
years from the effective date of this title, or of any amendment hereto, which
causes them to become nonconforming:
      1.   Any nonconforming building or structure having an assessed valuation
not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on the effective date of this
title.
      2.   Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed buildings are
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
such use.
   B.   Correction Or Removal Required: The above nonconforming situations
shall be altered so as to become conforming or shall be completely removed from
the premises at the expiration of the three (3) year period and after proper
notification by the zoning administrator. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-4-6: DAMAGE TO OR DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Rebuilding Regulated: If a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use or if a nonconforming structure or any nonconforming sign,
billboard, or other outdoor advertising structure is damaged or destroyed by
any means to the extent of sixty percent (60%) (according to fire officials) or
more of its replacement value at the time, the building or structure may be
rebuilt or used thereafter only for a conforming use and only in compliance
with all other requirements for the district in which it is located.
   B.   Repair Permitted: If a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use or if a nonconforming structure is damaged by any means to an
extent less than sixty percent (60%) (according to fire officials) of its
replacement value at that time, it may be repaired, and the previous use may be
continued.
   C.   Prompt Repair Required: Repair of a damaged building or other structure
as permitted in subsection B of this section, must be started within a period
of one year from the occurrence of the damage and diligently prosecuted to
completion. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-4-7: ADDITIONS TO OR ENLARGEMENT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Extension Of Nonconforming Structure: A nonconforming structure may be
extended or enlarged in any manner that is in conformity with the regulations
established for the district in which it is located; provided, that this
extension or enlargement does not increase or intensify the original
nonconforming situation.
   B.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: A building occupied by a nonconforming
use may be extended, enlarged, or added to, or additional buildings may be
constructed on the same or adjacent property; provided, that: 1) this
construction does not result in either creating a nonconforming structure or
increasing or intensifying an original nonconforming structure, and provided
that: 2) the building area occupied by the nonconforming use shall not exceed
by more than fifty percent (50%) the building's area in such nonconforming use
at the effective date of this title or of pertinent amendments hereto.
   C.   Approval Of Additions Or Enlargements: Approval of additions or
enlargements as provided in subsections A and B of this section shall be in
accordance with the procedures set forth in section
15-5-4 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
15-5-1: Intent And Purpose
15-5-2: Authority; List Of Types Of Special Uses
15-5-3: Conditions Of Approval
15-5-4: Procedure For Approval Of Special Uses And Additions To Or Enlargement
Of Nonconforming Structures
15-5-5: Planned Unit Development
15-5-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide the mechanism whereby
certain structures and/or uses that are necessary and desirable but are of a
unique, special, or nonrecurring nature may be permitted within any zoning
district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-5-2: AUTHORITY; LIST OF TYPES OF SPECIAL USES:
The city council may permit special uses of land and/or structures within any
district subject to conditions contained herein if it finds that the proposed
location and establishment of any such special use will be desirable or
necessary to the public convenience or welfare and will be harmonious and
compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of the selected site
or sites and will further community development in accordance with the
comprehensive plan. The following is a general list of the kinds of uses that
may be given a special use classification:
   Airport, landing field, or landing strip.
   Antique and gift shops, art and craft studios, tourist homes, and other
tourist oriented structures or uses within the AG (agricultural) district or
the GR (general residential) district.
   Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage.
   Art galleries, libraries, museums, or similar structures.
   Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, gymnasiums, and other similar
places for public events.
   Bus terminals, railroad passenger stations, freight terminals, or any other
public transportation terminal facilities.
   Cemeteries, crematories, or mausoleums.
   Churches.
   City or privately owned recreation buildings or community centers.
   Extraction of gravel, sand, or other raw materials.
   Fairgrounds, publicly owned and operated.
   Golf courses, public or private.
   Historically nonconforming uses (see section
15-4-7 of this title).
   Hospitals or sanatoriums, public or private.
   Medical or dental offices or clinics.
   Nonconforming uses, permitted expansion of (see section
15-4-7 of this title).
   Off street public or commercial parking areas and garages.
   Parks or playgrounds, public or private.
   Planned developments (as defined in section
15-1-3 of this title).
   Police station, fire station, city hall, or courthouse.
   Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant, water reservoir or
pumping station, heat or power plant, transformer station, and other similar
facilities.
   Radio and television transmitting or antenna towers (commercial) and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor structures and including antenna towers
used for the sending of private messages.
   Railroad rights of way.
   Rest homes and nursing homes.
   Schools, elementary, high, and college; public or private.
   Sign clusters or sign malls.
   Telephone exchanges, antenna towers, and other outdoor equipment essential
to the operation of the exchange.
   Undertaking establishments.
   Other uses similar to the above uses; provided, that the intent of this
section is followed. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
15-5-3: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The zoning board of appeals and/or the city council may recommend and impose
such restrictions upon the height, bulk, and area of occupancy of any structure
so approved as a special use as may be reasonable under the particular
circumstances; provided, that such restrictions and stipulations shall not be
more restrictive than the requirement established for the district in which
such structure is proposed to be located or as may be required in any other
municipal code. Off street parking facilities as well as off street loading and
unloading spaces may also be stipulated in the order permitting the special
use. Recommendations and approval shall follow the procedures established in
section
15-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-5-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIAL USES AND ADDITIONS TO OR ENLARGEMENT
OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses and
for the addition to or enlargement of nonconforming structures as permitted in
chapter 4 of this title shall be as follows:
   A.   Application: An application, verified by the owner or authorized agent
of the owner of the property involved, shall be filed with the zoning
administrator for the attention of the zoning board of appeals upon a form
prescribed therefor which shall contain or be accompanied by all required
information.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of such verified application, the zoning
administrator shall notify the chairman of the zoning board of appeals or, in
his absence, the vice chairman and shall give notice of a public hearing in the
same manner as provided for hearings on the reclassification of property as
contained in chapter 11 of this title. A record of pertinent information
presented at the public hearing shall be made and maintained by the zoning
board of appeals as part of the permanent record relative to the application.
   C.   Determination: The zoning board of appeals shall then make its findings
and recommendations known to the city council within thirty (30) days following
the date of public hearing on each application. The city council may then
authorize a "special use" as defined herein, or the addition or enlargement of
a nonconforming structure provided the evidence presented is such as to
establish:
      1.   That the proposed use or expansion at the particular location
requested is necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is
in the interest of public convenience and will contribute to the general
welfare of the neighborhood or community and shall further community
development in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   That such use or expansion will not, under the circumstances of the
particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property
values or improvements in the vicinity.
      3.   That the proposed use or expansion will comply with the regulations
and conditions specified in this title for such use or expansion and with the
stipulations and conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the
city council. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-5-5: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   General Purpose And Description: The planned unit development district
(PUD) is intended to encourage flexible and innovative design in the
development of appropriate sites as integrated project units. Regulations for
this district are designed:
      1.   To allow a workable and interrelated mix of diverse land uses;
      2.   To maximize the potential for residential, commercial, and
industrial development and at the same time reduce to a minimum the impact of
the development on surrounding land uses and the natural environment;
      3.   To encourage the careful design and planning of larger developments.
   B.   General Requirements: A PUD may be established on a parcel of five (5)
acres, or more, for residential, commercial, and industrial developments. Such
PUD designation(s) shall be shown on the official zoning map as a P followed by
a letter designating the primary use, C (commercial), I (industrial), or R
(residential); therefore, showing a PR, PI, or PC designation.
   C.   Permitted Uses: Each PUD shall allow any principal permitted use
allowed by the zoning ordinance, which by design and use and restriction is
compatible with all adjacent uses, and which is specifically listed in the
ordinance adopted for the PUD.
   D.   Development Regulations: In all PUDs the following minimum standards
shall be met:
      1.   The density and design of the PUD shall be compatible in use, size
and type of structure, relative amount of open space, traffic circulation and
general layout with adjoining land uses, and shall be integrated into the
neighborhood.
      2.   The PUD shall take into consideration the impact in existing streets
and utilities.
      3.   The economic, environmental, and neighborhood impacts of the
development shall be considered.
      4.   The PUD shall conform with the adopted long range comprehensive
plan.
      5.   Maximum land coverage of all buildings and impermeable areas shall
be established.
      6.   Minimum open space shall be established and continued maintenance of
the open space shall be provided in the specific PUD ordinance. ("Open space"
means land area of the PUD not covered by the buildings or parking and
including stormwater detention basins, recreational and pedestrian areas,
natural features, such as watercourses, woodlands, bluffs, etc., and private
yards, if any.)
      7.   Minimum interior and perimeter setbacks shall be established.
      8.   Structures, other than single-family, adjacent to existing single-
family dwellings must be adequately screened and landscaped.
   E.   Other Requirements: Other requirements may be required, if found
necessary to protect and promote the best interests of the surrounding property
or the neighborhood.
   F.   Procedure For District Establishment And Expansion:
      1.   Preapplication conference with city staff to determine feasibility
of project.
      2.   Application and submission of conceptual development plan to city
staff.
   G.   Commission Hearing: A public hearing shall be held by the zoning board
on the PUD application in the same manner and with the same public notice
procedure as required for zoning reclassification.
   H.   Plan Approval Standards: The zoning board and the city council shall
not approve the PUD application plan unless the board and council determine
that the conceptual plan meets the following standards:
      1.   Natural drainage areas are retained as appropriate and improved if
necessary.
      2.   The conceptual development plan is in substantial conformance with
the comprehensive plan.
      3.   The proposed development is designed so as to be functionally
integrated with existing city streets, sanitary, storm sewer, and water
service.
      4.   The conceptual development plan will not violate any provision of
the zoning ordinance.
      5.   Due consideration is given to preserving natural site amenities and
minimizing the disturbance to the natural environment.
      6.   If the development is in a floodplain then the floodplain ordinance
requirements must be met.
   I.   Zoning Board Recommendation: The zoning board's recommendation shall be
transmitted to the city council with a statement of reasons in support of, or
in opposition to, the application, and with recommended conditions or
restrictions to be included in an ordinance authorizing the PUD district.
   J.   Council Action: Upon the recommendation of the zoning board, the city
council shall act in the manner provided by law to approve or disapprove the
requested PUD zoning reclassification of the property. The affirmative majority
vote will be necessary to confirm the conceptual development plan and an
ordinance authorizing the establishment of a PUD district shall be recorded in
the office of the Jo Daviess County recorder.
   K.   Development Of Final Site Plan: Submission of a final site plan will
occur after passage of the ordinance authorizing the establishing of a PUD
district by the city council, the applicant shall submit a final site plan to
the city manager within the period of time, if any, specified in said
ordinance. The final site plan shall be in substantial conformance with the
approved conceptual development plan. No building permit shall be issued until
a final site plan has been submitted and approved. No buildings may be erected
and no uses may occupy any portion of the PUD district until the required
related off site improvements are constructed as determined and a bond is
acquired as determined by the city manager. If substantial construction or
development does not begin within the period of time specified then the city
council may rezone the property back to its original zoning classification,
with proper notification to the property owner(s). If the time limitation has
been exceeded, as specified, an extension may be allotted by the city council,
if sufficient cause has been shown. Any significant deviation from the final
site plan submitted may be taken to the zoning board for review. (Ord. 10-0803,
8-2-2010)
CHAPTER 6
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
15-6-1: Intent And Purpose
15-6-2: General Parking And Loading Provisions
15-6-3: Additional Parking Provisions
15-6-4: Schedule Of Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
15-6-5: Design And Maintenance Of Loading And Unloading Facilities
15-6-6: Schedule Of Minimum Off-Street Loading And Unloading Facilities
15-6-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to require a specified number of
adequately sized and located off-street parking and loading spaces for new and/
or expanded buildings or uses to prevent congestion and hazards in the public
streets. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-6-2: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Building Permit Application To Contain Parking And Loading Regulations:
An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure,
or use shall include a plat plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing
any parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with the
requirements of this title.
   B.   Parking And Loading Facilities Required; Exceptions:
      1.   All buildings and structures erected or enlarged and uses of land
initiated after the effective date of this title shall provide accessory off-
street parking or loading facilities as required hereinafter; except, that a
building or structure for which a building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date of this title shall not be required to furnish parking or
loading facilities if construction is begun thereon within six (6) months of
the effective date of this title and diligently prosecuted to completion.
      2.   A specific number of parking and loading facilities shall not be
required for the remodeling, rehabilitation, or putting to use of an existing
building or structure; provided, that: a) the ground area covered by the
existing building or structure shall not be increased; b) any existing parking
and/or loading facilities shall be continued and maintained; and c) any area of
the lot suitable for the development of approved off-street parking facilities
shall be so developed. Remodeling, rehabilitation, or use which does increase
the ground area covered by such existing structure shall be subject to the same
requirements as new construction.
   C.   Decrease In Parking And Loading Facilities Permitted: When a building
or structure erected or enlarged prior to or after the effective date of this
title shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, number of employees, or other unit of measurement specified
hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities, and further, when said
decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total parking or loading
spaces through application of the provisions of this title thereto, parking and
loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided, that existing parking
or loading facilities shall be so decreased only when the facilities remaining
would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements resulting
from application of the provisions of this title to the entire building or
structure as modified.
   D.   Increase In Parking And Loading Facilities: When the ground area
covered by an existing building or structure shall be increased, and further,
when said increase would result in a requirement for additional total parking
or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this title thereto,
parking and loading facilities may be increased accordingly; provided, that
existing parking or loading facilities shall be so increased that the total
facilities would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements
resulting from application of the provisions of this title to the entire
building or structure as modified.
   E.   Excess Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the establishment of off-street parking or loading facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings or to prevent the establishment of
facilities in excess of those required.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction To Existing Structures And Uses: Any building,
structure or use which is in existence on the effective date of this title and
which subsequently shall be damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion,
or other cause may be reconstructed, reestablished, or repaired with or without
off- street parking or loading facilities; except, that parking or loading
facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or
destruction shall be replaced or continued in operation. However, it shall not
be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of
those required by this title for equivalent new construction.
   G.   Floor Area: The term "floor area", as used herein, in the case of
office, merchandising, or service types of use shall mean the gross floor area
of a building or structure used or intended to be used for service to the
public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, or tenants, including areas
occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise.
"Floor area", for the purpose of this chapter shall not include any area used
for:
      1.   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building;
      2.   Incidental repairs;
      3.   Processing or packaging of merchandise;
      4.   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance
of a store or building;
      5.   Rest rooms;
      6.   Utilities; and
      7.   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
   H.   Ground Area: The term "ground area", as used herein, shall mean that
area of a building site or lot actually occupied by all buildings or structures
on the site, except for the following:
      1.   Parking garages;
      2.   Carports;
      3.   Covered or enclosed parking or loading areas; and
      4.   Parking structures. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-6-3: ADDITIONAL PARKING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities for different
buildings, structures, or uses, or for mixed uses may be provided collectively
in any zoning district, and in accordance with subsection B of this section, in
which separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided, that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
   B.   Off-Site Facilities: All off-street parking facilities shall be located
on the same lot, or on a lot adjacent to or across a public street or alley
from the building, structure, or use which they are required to serve. When
such facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal
use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either by deed or
long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use. The required
number of parking spaces must be maintained during the existence of said
principal use. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   C.   Design And Maintenance Standards: Standards for the design and
maintenance of off-street parking facilities shall be as follows:
      1.   Description Of Parking Space: A required off-street parking space
shall be an area of not less than nine feet wide by twenty feet long (9' x
20'), exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work
areas, accessible from streets or alleys or from private driveways or aisles
leading to streets or alleys, and shall be used for the storage or parking of
passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles under one and one- half (11/2)
tons' capacity. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Calculation Of Number Of Spaces: When determination of the number of
required off-street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional
space, any fraction, up to and including one-half (1/2), shall be disregarded,
and any fraction over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one parking space.
      3.   Access: Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least
interfere with the movement of traffic. No driveway or curb cut in any district
shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in width.
      4.   Signs: No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of the
parking facilities.
      5.   Required Setbacks: No off-street parking lot or area, other than a
residential driveway, established on the same lot with a building shall be
located within a required front yard. No parking lot or area nor portion
thereof, established on a lot without a building, shall be located closer to
any street line than the established building line on adjacent properties nor
closer than the front yard setback required for the district in which the
parking lot is located.
      6.   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas and driveways, except
those accessory to single-family dwellings, shall be improved by constructing
with either:
         a.   Six inches (6") of compacted gravel base surfaced with two inches
(2") of asphaltic concrete; or
         b.   Six inches (6") of concrete laid over a firm base. (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
      7.   Screening And Landscaping: Within or adjacent to a residential
district, all open off-street parking areas for six (6) or more cars shall be
effectively screened by a wall, a privacy fence restricting visibility, or a
densely planted compact hedge along any side which is adjacent to property in
residential use unless that use is across a public street or alley from such
parking area. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
      8.   Lighting: Any parking area shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining property.
   D.   Special Use Public Parking Areas: Any automobile parking area developed
for transient trade, and not accessory to specific main uses or groups of uses
for which parking is required by this title shall be treated as a "special
use", as defined in chapter 5 of this title and as approved by the city
council. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-6-4: SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Airports, railroad passenger stations,  Such parking space as the city council
bus depots, or other passenger terminal shall deem to be adequate for
facilities (special uses)               employees, passengers, spectators,
                                        visitors, and others
Alcoholic beverages, food, or
refreshments: establishments handling
the sale and consumption on the         1 parking space for each 300 square
premises of alcoholic beverages, food,  feet of floor area over 1,500 square
or refreshments having more than 1,500  feet
square feet of floor area under 1 roof
devoted to such use or uses
Banks, business or professional         1 parking space for each 400 square
offices, or public administration       feet of floor space
buildings
                                        2 parking spaces for each alley, plus 1
Bowling alleys                          parking space for each 300 feet of
                                        floor area devoted to affiliated uses
                                        such as bars, restaurants, and the like
                                        1 parking space for each 12 seats
Churches, schools, or other auditoriums provided in said buildings or
                                        structures
Dance halls, skating rinks, assembly    1 parking space for each 100 square
halls, exhibition halls, or other       feet of floor area used for assembly
places of assembly
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores,        1 parking space for each 600 square
household equipment or furniture repair feet of floor area over and above 2,000
shops, or machinery sales having more   square feet
than 2,000 square feet of floor area
under 1 roof
                                        1 parking space for each 3 hospital
Hospitals                               beds, plus 1 additional space for each
                                        staff or visiting doctor
                                        Parking space for each guest room,
                                        sleeping room or suite, plus 1
                                        additional space for the owner or
Hotels, tourist homes, cabins, or       manager, plus such additional space as
motels                                  shall be deemed necessary because of
                                        any supplementary parking- generative
                                        activities such as bars, ballrooms,
                                        dining rooms, nightclub facilities, and
                                        the like
                                        1 parking space for each 2 apartments,
Housing for the elderly                 plus 1 additional space for each staff
                                        member
                                        1 parking space for each 4 guests, plus
Lodging, rooming, and boarding houses   1 additional space for the owner or
                                        manager if resident on the premises
Manufacturing and industrial uses;
research and testing laboratories;      1 parking space for each 4 employees
laundry and dry cleaning plants;        based upon the maximum number of
printing, binding, publishing and       persons to be employed at any one work
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,     period during the day or night, plus
books, and other reading matter;        such additional parking facilities as
warehouses and storage buildings;       shall be required for all vehicles used
assembly of materials and products; and in the conduct of the enterprise
other similar uses
Medical or dental clinics               3 parking spaces per doctor engaged at
                                        clinic
                                        5 parking spaces for each room used as
                                        a chapel or parlor, plus 1 space for
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           each funeral vehicle maintained on the
                                        premises, plus 1 space for each family
                                        residing on the premises
Private clubs or lodges (without        Parking spaces equal in number to 25
sleeping rooms)                         percent of the total membership
Residential buildings                   2 parking spaces for each family
                                        dwelling unit
Retail stores and service shops having  1 parking space for each 300 square
a total floor area of 2,000 or more     feet of retail floor area over and
square feet devoted to retail sales     above 2,000 square feet
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, or     1 parking space for each 6 patient
homes for the aged                      beds, plus 1 additional space for each
                                        staff or visiting doctor
Theaters:
                                        1 parking space for each 10 seats up to
Indoor                                  500, plus 1 space for each 5 seats
                                        above 500
Outdoor                                 Reservoir space equal to 10 percent of
                                        the capacity
 
(Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-6-5: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF LOADING AND UNLOADING FACILITIES:
   A.   Description Of Loading Berth: An off-street loading berth shall be a
hard-surfaced area of land, either open or enclosed, other than a street or
public way, used principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor
trucks, tractors, and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the
public use of streets and alleys. A required loading space shall be not less
than ten feet in width, forty five feet in length, and fourteen feet in height
(10' x 45' x 14'), exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space, except as
otherwise specifically dimensioned hereafter.
   B.   Location Of Berth:
      1.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be closer than fifty
feet (50') to any property in a residential district unless completely enclosed
by building walls or a solid fence or wall or any combination thereof not less
than six feet (6') in height.
      2.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2)
streets.
      3.   Loading berths open to the sky may be located in any required yards.
   C.   Calculation Of Number Of Berths: When determination of the number of
required off-street loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional
berth, any fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded,
and fractions over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one loading berth.
   D.   Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved by
construction with a weather- and dust-proof surface equal to the paving
material of the street onto which it opens. If a berth opens into two (2) or
more streets, the more substantial paving material shall be used. (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
15-6-6: SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING FACILITIES:
In all districts where property uses include the loading and unloading of
materials or merchandise from vehicles, off-street loading and unloading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Type Of Use                             Loading And Unloading Space Required
Banks, business or professional
offices, or public administration       1 off-street loading and unloading
buildings containing more than 10,000   space
square feet of floor area
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores,        1 off-street loading and unloading
household equipment, or machinery sales space
- buildings having more than 6,000
square feet of floor area
Hospitals or sanitariums containing     1 off-street loading and unloading
more than 4,000 square feet of floor    space
area
Hotels or apartment-hotel buildings
containing more than 10,000 square feet 1 off-street loading and unloading
of floor area within which are operated space
restaurants, office facilities, or
retail shops
Manufacturing uses; research and
testing laboratories; laundry and dry
cleaning establishments; printing,
binding, publishing, and issuing of
newspapers, periodicals, books, and
other reading matter; warehouse and     1 off-street loading and unloading
storage facilities; assembly of         space, plus 1 place for each additional
materials and products; processing and  60,000 square feet of gross floor area
distribution of materials and products; in excess of 40,000 square feet
and other similar uses - buildings
having more than 10,000 square feet of
gross floor area, exclusive of basement
and less than 40,000 square feet of
gross floor area
 
(Ord., 4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
15-7-1: Purpose Of Residential Districts
15-7-1: PURPOSE OF RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health and to promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and welfare. These general goals include the following specific
purposes:
   A.   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious fumes,
offensive noise, smoke, dust, vibrations, odors, heat, glare, and other
objectionable factors.
   B.   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate in
each area against unduly heavy traffic, especially through traffic, and to
alleviate congestion by promoting off- street parking.
   C.   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public streets
and other public facilities by controlling the density of population through
regulation of the bulk of buildings.
   D.   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing for
ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof.
   E.   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same lot with residential development.
   F.   To promote public convenience by permitting certain neighborhood
commercial facilities to be established and operated.
   G.   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the need
for necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences which
increase safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert any
objectionable influences.
   H.   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a comprehensive land use plan to promote stability of
residential development and protect the character and desirable development and
to strengthen the economic base of the city. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
ARTICLE A. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-7A-1: Intent
15-7A-2: Permitted Uses
15-7A-3: Site Planning And Building Bulk Requirements
15-7A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a single-family residential district is to delimit
certain areas for the construction of new housing of a more spacious and
substantial nature and to ensure that high environmental standards are
encouraged and maintained. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the single-family residential district:
Farmsteads and farming operations, if on a parcel of land five (5) acres or
larger and in accordance with all applicable city and state regulations.
Single-family residential and accessory buildings; except, that attached
single-family units are not permitted except as part of an approved planned
development.
Special uses, as regulated by chapter 5 of this title.
Temporary buildings used for construction purposes for a period not to exceed
one year. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7A-3: SITE PLANNING AND BUILDING BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building within this district may be constructed,
altered, added on to, or moved into the district that would be higher than two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), measured at the customary
front of the building, unless specifically approved by the city council as
being reasonable and necessary.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed or located
upon a lot or parcel of land smaller than five thousand (5,000) square feet in
area if that lot or parcel of land was a lot or parcel of record on January 1,
1981. Minimum lot size for lots or parcels developed after January 1, 1981,
shall be a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: No building shall be constructed, altered,
added onto, or moved into the district unless the following yards are provided
and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than thirty
feet (30') in depth, except in such areas of the city where the predominant
number of existing buildings have front yard setbacks of either greater or less
than thirty feet (30'). In such areas, the setback shall equal the average
setback of those existing buildings. In no case shall a front yard setback of
more than fifty feet (50') be required.
      2.   Side Yards: Each lot shall have a side yard on each side of a
principal structure equal to not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot. The side yard facing a street on a corner lot shall meet the same
requirements as for a front yard above.
      3.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard equal to not less than
ten percent (10%) of the lot depth. An accessory building may be constructed or
altered within this rear yard in accordance with section
15-3-7 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
      4.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures on lots less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet are limited to one detached structure and lots
greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet will be permitted two (2)
detached structures. (Ord. 16-0110, 1-4-2016)
(Note: The standards in this subsection C may be waived or modified in
accordance with subsection
15-12-2E of this title when special conditions such as topography, soil
conditions, or landscaping are such as to substantially limit the use of the
lot if the above requirements were to be followed exactly.) (Ord., 4-26-1978;
amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Allowable Obstructions: The following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located within or over required yards:
      1.   Terraces.
      2.   Awnings or canopies.
      3.   Chimneys.
      4.   Steps or stairways.
      5.   Arbors or trellises. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
      6.   Hedges not over six feet (6') in height; except, that any hedge
located within or around any required front yard shall not be over four feet
(4') in height. Twenty five feet (25') of clear visibility shall be maintained
on corner lots (see subsection E, "Sign Triangle", of this section). (Ord. 10-
0804, 8-2-2010)
      7.   Breezeways or open porches (rear and side yards only).
      8.   Open parking areas in accordance with chapter 6 of this title.
      9.   Permitted signs in accordance with subsection
15-8A-2E4 of this title.
      10.   Flagpoles.
      11.   Bay or oriel windows.
      12.   Roof overhangs, if not in excess of three feet (3'). (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
      13.   Fences.
         a.   Residential Districts: On any residential lot, fences may be
erected to a height of six feet (6') in all yards except that fences erected in
required front yards shall not exceed four feet (4') in height. Twenty five
feet (25') of clear visibility shall be maintained on corner lots (see
subsection E, "Sign Triangle", of this section). All fences shall be situated
on a lot in such a manner that the finished side of the fence shall face
adjacent properties.
         b.   Historic Districts: Fences with height in excess of the above
limitations may be permitted as a conditional use where the height, material,
composition and general appearance of the fence is appropriate to the property
in that historic district and the other application standards for conditional
use permits are met.
         c.   Other Districts: Fences surrounding schoolyards or located in
other zoning districts shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection;
provided, that visibility at intersections is not hindered.
         d.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire shall not be permitted below eight feet
(8') in height except on AG, agriculturally zoned properties for purposes of
containing livestock.
      14.   Outdoor swimming pools and spas. Fences required.
         a.   Swimming pools, bathing pools, and/or spas shall conform to the
requirements of this article, providing that these regulations shall not be
applicable to any such pool less than eighteen inches (18") deep or having a
surface area of less than two hundred fifty (250) square feet, except where
such pools are permanently equipped with a water recirculating system or
involve structural materials. If a pool or spa is equipped to restrict access,
fencing requirements may be waived. All other pools and/or spas will be
required to have at least a five foot (5') high fence with no openings herein,
other than doors or gates; provided, however, that if a picket or similar fence
is erected or maintained the horizontal dimension of the openings, other than
the gates or doors, shall not exceed four inches (4").
         b.   All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be
equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices designed to keep, and
capable of keeping, such gate or door securely closed and latched at all times
when not in actual use. Such self-latching devices shall be located not less
than four feet (4') above the underlying ground surface or otherwise made
inaccessible from the outside to small children. Any dwelling or other building
on the premises may be incorporated in and considered as constituting a portion
of the required barrier. Doors or other openings from any occupied dwelling (as
distinguished from a garage) into the required enclosure need not be equipped
with self-closing or self-latching devices. (Ord. 10-0612, 7-6-2010)
      15.   Retaining walls.
         a.   Height Limitation: In all zoning districts, retaining walls shall
not exceed six feet (6') in height except when located in the front building
setback then the height shall not exceed four feet (4'). Height shall be
measured from finished ground to top of wall.
The requirements for this subsection shall apply to the construction,
installation, extension, and replacement of all retaining walls.
         b.   Exemption: Retaining walls that are less than three feet (3') in
height shall be exempt from these requirements.
         c.   Permit Required: A retaining wall permit shall be obtained prior
to beginning construction, extension, or replacement of all applicable
retaining walls.
            (1)   Application: To obtain a retaining wall permit, a completed
application form and a plan must be submitted to the zoning administrator. The
plan must show:
               (A)   Location of all property lines;
               (B)   Location of all existing and proposed structures;
               (C)   Location of existing retaining walls on property, if
applicable;
               (D)   Portions of existing retaining wall that will be replaced,
if applicable;
               (E)   Location of new retaining wall;
               (F)   Construction details to include, but not limited to,
dimensions, cross section, construction materials, and footing design;
               (G)   Details concerning the height of the proposed retaining
wall and the material;
               (H)   Additional information may be requested from staff after
initial review;
               (I)   Letter of agreement regarding drainage patterns (see
subsection D15f(2) of this section).
            (2)   Review And Approval: Once all the required information is
submitted, it shall be reviewed by the zoning administrator for compliance. If
the application is approved, the applicant shall pay the permit fee and the
retaining wall permit will be issued.
            (3)   Compliance: All retaining walls shall be installed in
compliance with the retaining wall regulations and with the information shown
on the approved plan and retaining wall permit application form.
            (4)   Inspection Required: The applicant shall contact the zoning
administrator to request a final inspection upon completion of the retaining
wall(s). If the zoning administrator, or his/her designee, determines that the
retaining wall is constructed in accordance with the ordinance requirements and
the approved retaining wall permit a certificate of compliance will be issued.
If the retaining wall does not pass the inspection, the zoning administrator
shall prepare an inspection report detailing the deficiencies.
         d.   Private Property: All retaining walls shall be located on private
property and shall be built with the consent of the property owner. The
retaining wall installer and/or property owner shall be responsible to
correctly locate property boundaries. Retaining walls shall not encroach
neighboring property lines.
         e.   Sight Triangle: See subsection E of this section.
         f.   Easements:
            (1)   Utility Easements: Retaining walls shall not restrict access
to utilities. Retaining walls proposed in a utility easement shall be approved
on a case by case basis.
            (2)   Drainage Easements: Retaining walls shall not impede the
normal flow of stormwater and shall not cross an open drainage channel.
Retaining walls proposed in drainage easements shall be approved on a case by
case basis.
            (3)   Access Easement: Retaining walls shall not be allowed over a
public or private access agreement.
         g.   Terraced Retaining Walls: If walls are terraced, the upper wall
shall be located no closer to the lower wall than 1.0 times the height of the
tallest wall. (Ord. 10-0804, 8-2-2010)
   E.   Sight Triangle: Fences, walls, and hedges constructed over three feet
(3') near street intersections shall not be located in the "sight distance
triangle", shown below, in order to provide a reasonable degree of traffic
visibility.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/89835a9920442926c3fbd48987272447faf5b4f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1126.gif]
(Ord. 10-0612, 7-6-2010)
ARTICLE B. LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-7B-1: Intent
15-7B-2: Permitted Uses
15-7B-3: Site Planning And Building Bulk Requirements
15-7B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a low density residential district is to permit the
construction of a limited number of new single- family homes outside the area
served by city sewer and water systems. Such areas must be assured of adequate
space for the proper performance of septic systems and individual wells. Even
though such development is permitted, it is not the intent of this article to
encourage the redevelopment of agricultural areas for residential purposes or
to alter the character of traditionally agricultural areas. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
All uses permitted within the single-family residential district are permitted
within the low density residential district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7B-3: SITE PLANNING AND BUILDING BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: Same as for the single-family residential district.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed or located
upon a lot or parcel of land smaller than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet
in area.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Same as for the single-family residential
district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
ARTICLE C. GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-7C-1: Intent
15-7C-2: Permitted Uses
15-7C-3: Site Planning And Building Bulk Requirements
15-7C-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a general residential district is to encourage
adequate new construction and rehabilitation activities in those older sections
of the city that are a mixture of old and new buildings. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses Enumerated: All uses permitted within the single-family
residential district are permitted within the general residential district
including the following additional uses:
Apartment buildings or town house structures containing dwelling units for not
more than six (6) families and located on a lot or parcel of land not smaller
than two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit unless such
construction is part of a "planned development" as defined in chapter 5 of this
title. Apartment buildings or townhouse structures shall not be constructed on
any lot or parcel of land smaller than four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet.
   B.   Permitted Special Uses: As additional special uses, subject to chapter
5 of this title, antique and gift shops, art or craft studios, private museums,
tourist homes, and other tourist-oriented activities subject to the same
limitations and regulations as are neighborhood commercial facilities and as
set forth in chapter 8 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-7C-3: SITE PLANNING AND BUILDING BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: Same as for the single-family residential district.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed on a lot
or parcel of land smaller than four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet
in area unless such lot or parcel was in existence at the time of passage of
this title and is not contiguous with other vacant lots or parcels in the same
ownership.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Same as for the single-family residential
district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
15-8-1: Purpose Of Business Districts
15-8-2: Self-Storage Facilities
15-8-1: PURPOSE OF BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
The business districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, to promote public safety, comfort, convenience, and the general
welfare, and to protect the economic base of the city and the value of
property. These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
   A.   To promote the most desirable use of land so that adequate space is
provided in appropriate locations for the various types of business uses
thereby protecting and strengthening the economic base of the city.
   B.   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create noise,
odors, hazards, unsightliness, or which may generate excessive traffic.
   C.   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion.
   D.   To provide for the establishment of off street parking facilities so as
to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote shopping convenience and
business prosperity. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8-2: SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Definition: "Self-storage facility" means a building, group of
buildings, or other facility having compartments, rooms, spaces or other types
of units that are individually leased, rented, or otherwise contracted for by
customers for the storage of personal or business goods or property, and where
the facility owner/operator has limited access to the units. For purposes of
this title, "self-storage facility" shall be considered synonymous with self-
storage warehouse, miniwarehouse, or ministorage.
   B.   Permitted Activities: The only activities permitted in individual
storage units shall be the rental of the unit and the pick up and deposit of
goods and/or property in storage. Storage units shall not be used for
activities such as:
      1.   Residences, offices, workshops, studios, hobby, or rehearsal areas;
      2.   Manufacturing, fabrications, or processing of goods, service, or
repair of vehicles, engines, appliances, or other electrical equipment, or any
other industrial activity;
      3.   Conducting retail sales of any kind including garage or estate
sales, auctions, or to conduct any other commercial activity;
      4.   Storage of flammable, perishable, or hazardous materials or the
keeping of animals.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Self-storage facilities located in general
commercial shall allow tenant access between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Central Standard Time.
   D.   Outside storage of boats, RVs, and other vehicles may be allowed in
areas in which it will not create a public nuisance. This prohibition only
applies to self- storage facilities.
   E.   Electrical Service: Electrical service to storage units shall be for
lighting and climate control, if applicable. No electrical outlets are
permitted inside individual storage units.
   F.   Exterior Lighting: Each building will be required to have exterior
lighting that does not negatively impact the surrounding neighbors. (Ord. 13-
0703, 7-1-2013; amd. Ord. 24-1122, 11-18-2024)
ARTICLE A. GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-8A-1: Intent
15-8A-2: Permitted Uses And Conditions
15-8A-3: Activities To Be Enclosed; Exceptions
15-8A-4: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-8A-5: Special Uses
15-8A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a General Business District is to delimit certain
areas for the construction and/or operation of conventional, nonauto-oriented
commercial activities that would best function within a Central Business
District or downtown location. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8A-2: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONS:
The following uses are permitted within the General Business District:
   A.   Commercial establishments subject to all other pertinent State and
local regulations, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   Retail establishments such as grocery, hardware, drug, clothing, and
furniture stores; eating and drinking places.
      2.   Personal services such as laundry, dry-cleaning, barber, beauty, and
shoe repair shops and photography studios.
      3.   Professional services such as medical and dental clinics and
attorneys' offices.
      4.   Repair services such as automobile, jewelry, and radio and
television shops.
      5.   Entertainment and amusement services such as motion picture theaters
or bowling alleys.
      6.   Lodging services such as hotels or motels.
   B.   Tourist attractions such as historic structures and sites.
   C.   Public and semi-public buildings such as the Post Office or City Hall.
   D.   Dwellings, provided they are located above the street unless the entry
to such dwelling faces a residential district.
   E.   Signs limited to the following:
      1.   One permanent pole or ground sign per establishment; and/or
      2.   One permanent sign for each public entry to an establishment;
provided, that not more than one such sign per establishment be permitted on a
building facade.
      3.   Business signs, billboards, or other outdoor advertising structures
which conform to the following regulations: (Ord., 4-26-1978)
         a.   Maximum Square Feet Facing One Direction:
            (1)   One sign, not larger than seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet, with additional allowance of four hundred fifty (450) square feet for
embellishments and/or extensions.
            (2)   Two (2) signs side by side or one above another totaling no
more than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001
Code)
         b.   Spacing Between Signs Facing In Same Direction:
            (1)   Within the corporate limits of East Dubuque, one hundred feet
(100').
            (2)   Outside the corporate limits of East Dubuque, three hundred
feet (300').
         c.   Lighting: At no time shall light on any sign create an unsafe
situation by conflicting with traffic lights or signs. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
         d.   Additional Signs Or Square Footage: To permit establishments to
have additional signs, or additional square footage for signs, as is reasonable
or necessary for the operation of the establishment. (Ord. 17-0504, 5-1-2017)
      4.   One unlighted, harmonious professional sign not more than one foot
(1') by three feet (3') long in a residential district.
   F.   Off street parking and/or loading facilities in accordance with chapter
6 of this title.
   G.   "Special uses" as defined in chapter 5 of this title.
   H.   Facilities for automobile drive-up or drive-through service in
conjunction with a permitted use may be permitted by the City Council as a
special use following the procedures outlined in chapter 5 of this title.
(Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8A-3: ACTIVITIES TO BE ENCLOSED; EXCEPTIONS:
All activities shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building with the
exception of the following:
   A.   Automobile servicing, but not repair.
   B.   Periodic retail promotional activities when specifically approved by
the City Council.
   C.   Periodic tourist oriented retail activities when specifically approved
by the City Council and when confined to a specific area.
   D.   Off street parking and loading activities. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   E.   Outdoor consumption areas (OCAs):
      1.   The area in which such sales for consumption are conducted, must be
contiguous to and access controlled by the licensed premises.
      2.   Enclosed area must be:
         a.   Attractive. Collapsible/removable fencing allowed, no higher than
four feet (4') on three (3) sides.
         b.   Litter free. No glass of any kind allowed.
         c.   Must be a permanent surface "aesthetically pleasing to the eye".
No gravel or rock allowed.
         d.   Established parking space must remain.
         e.   Pavilions and gazebos will be considered. Canvas awnings attached
to building with ability to be rolled up are acceptable. No tents.
   F.   Sidewalk Café.
      1.   That there exists a need for outdoor eating facilities in certain
areas of the downtown to provide a unique environment for relaxation, social
interaction, and food consumption.
      2.   That sidewalk cafés and eateries will permit enhanced use of the
available public rights-of way, will complement the restaurants operating from
fixed premises, and will promote economic activity in the downtown.
      3.   That the existence of sidewalk cafés encourages additional
pedestrian traffic, and their presence may impede the free and safe flow of
pedestrians. Therefore, a need exists for regulations and standards for the
existence and operation of sidewalk cafés to ensure a safe environment.
      4.   That business owners in the downtown of the City have limited
options to expand outdoor dining onto sidewalks or elsewhere on their private
property and are interested in utilizing adjacent on-street parking spaces
within the public right-of-way, and, therefore, there is a need to expand
sidewalk café to include outdoor dining opportunities.
      5.   That the establishment of permanent conditions and safety standards
for sidewalk cafés and outdoor eateries are necessary to protect and promote
public health, safety, and welfare.
      6.   Definition: Downtown - Means Sinsinawa Avenue and Wall Street
between Jordon Avenue and Third Street.
      7.   Definition: Sidewalk Café - Means an outdoor dining area that is
located on part of the public right-of-way and is designed and used for the
consumption of food or beverages prepared and served by a business
establishment that immediately adjoins such area in which such food and
beverages are also served.
         The owner or lessee of real property located in the downtown may be
issued a permit allowing operation of a sidewalk café.
      8.   Application. Before a permit may be issued, there shall be submitted
to the city clerk a fully completed application for sidewalk café permit on a
form provided by the city clerk. Included with such application shall be the
following:
         a.   A copy of a current certificate of insurance in the amount and
categories required by this chapter, including confirmation of coverage for
said sidewalk café.
         b.   A site plan, drawn to a scale of approximately 1/8" - 1', on 8 1/
2" x 11" paper, suitable for reproduction, which accurately depicts the
dimensions of the sidewalk area and adjacent private property, the proposed
location of the sidewalk café, size and number of tables, chairs, steps,
planters, and umbrellas, location of doorways, trees, parking meters, sidewalk
benches, trash receptacles, and any other sidewalk obstructions, either
existing or proposed, within the sidewalk area. Included with the site plan
shall be photographs, drawings, or manufacturer's brochures fully describing
the appearance and dimensions of all proposed tables, chairs, umbrellas or
other objects related to the sidewalk café.
      Plan must allow a minimum of 4-feet between the inside edge of the curb
or any obstruction allowed by the City on the sidewalk and any table or chair.
      The unobstructed pedestrian pathway required by this code shall be
clearly shown on the site plan. If a sidewalk café permit is issued, the site
plan shall be attached to and made a part of such permit.
         c.   A non-refundable application fee in an amount established from
time to time by resolution of the council.
      9.   Approval of permit and term: The City Manager shall review each
complete application to determine whether the applicant has adequately
demonstrated that the applicant has complied with those items set forth in this
chapter and may conduct such investigation into the content of the application
as considered necessary. If the City Manager determines that the application
should be approved, then the license application shall be placed on the
Council's agenda for final approval. If the City Manager determines that the
application should not be approved, the City Manager may administratively deny
such application or refer the application to the appropriate committee to
consider such application. Any denial by the City Manager may be appealed to
City Council for review as long as such appeal has been made in writing to the
City Manager within 30 days of the notice of denial. Each permit shall be
effective for one year, from July 1 through June 30.
      10.   Transfer of permit. The permit issued may be transferred to a new
owner. The transferred permit shall be valid only for the remainder of the
period for which it was originally issued. A new certificate of insurance must
be filed with the city within 30 days of the permit transfer.
      11.   Permit fees. The application fee for an initial sidewalk café
permit and the annual renewal fee for such permit, with or without an alcohol
license expansion, shall be $125.00.
      12.   Sidewalk café standards. The following standards, criteria,
conditions, and restrictions shall apply to all sidewalk cafés, provided
however, that the city manager may impose additional conditions and
restrictions to protect and promote the public health, safety, or welfare, to
prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing, and to comply with this
chapter, other provisions of this code, and applicable state and federal laws.
         a.   With the express written consent of the owner of property located
next to the property owned or leased by the sidewalk café permit holder, the
description of the sidewalk café may be expanded to include all or part of the
public right-of-way immediately adjacent to the real property of the person or
entity who has granted such permission.
         b.   Placement of equipment. Tables, chairs, umbrellas, signs or other
fixtures in the sidewalk café:
            (1)   Shall not be placed or allowed to remain within an area
extending in all directions from the center of any entry or exit door a
distance of two feet plus one-half of the width of the entry or exit door.
            (2)   Shall not block designated ingress, egress, or fire exits
from or to any structures, including the business establishment that operates
the sidewalk café.
            (3)   Shall be readily removable and shall not be physically
attached, chained or in any manner affixed to any structure, tree, post sign,
or other fixture, curb, or sidewalk.
            (4)   Shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary and safe manner.
         c.   Pedestrian pathway required. Sidewalk cafés shall be located in
such a manner that a distance of not less than four feet is maintained at all
times as a clear and unobstructed pedestrian path. For the minimum clear path,
parking meters, traffic signs, trees, trash receptacles and all similar
obstacles shall be considered obstructions.
         d.   Maintenance of sidewalk café. The sidewalk café, along with the
sidewalk and roadway immediately adjacent to it, shall be maintained in a neat
and orderly manner at all times. Debris shall be removed as required during the
day and again at the close of each business day. All debris and refuse
generated by patrons of the sidewalk café shall be disposed of in receptacles
provided by the holder of the sidewalk café permit and shall not be disposed of
in publicly maintained trash receptacles.
         c.   Umbrellas and decorative materials. Umbrellas and other
decorative materials shall be treated wood, canvas, cloth, or similar material
that is manufactured to be fire-resistant. Umbrellas shall only be permitted if
made an integral part of a table and no portion of an umbrella framework shall
extend beyond a vertical plane at the boundary of the sidewalk café, at edges
of the required pedestrian path or at the outer edges of the minimum clearances
required from other structures or facilities, unless that portion that extends
beyond such vertical plane is at least 7 1/2 feet above the sidewalk
immediately beneath it. Umbrellas and other decorative materials shall be
placed in a manner that does not significantly obstruct the view of any
neighboring traffic control or business signs.
      13.   Signs. Signs shall be placed within the sidewalk café and shall
conform to the following:
         a.   Any non-temporary sign shall be designed, constructed, erected,
and maintained to withstand horizontal wind pressures of not less than 30
pounds per square foot.
         b.   Any temporary sign shall be attached to supports so as to
withstand horizontal wind pressures of not less than 30 pounds per square foot.
         c.   Each sign shall be constructed and placed so as to not adversely
affect or inhibit the safe and efficient movement of pedestrians and motorists.
         d.   Signs shall not create or add to sign clutter due to the display
of an inordinate number of signs which overwhelms those viewing an area.
         e.   Signs shall be compatible with the street setting and
neighborhood character and enhance the appearance of the streetscape.
         f.   Signs shall be compatible with surrounding ground signs in terms
of height, location, copy area and type of illumination and shall not obstruct
the view of any surrounding signs.
         g.   Food preparation or storage prohibited. No food preparation, food
storage, refrigeration apparatus, or equipment shall be allowed in the sidewalk
café.
         h.   Amplified sound prohibited. No amplified sound shall be allowed
in the sidewalk café unless authorized as part of a special event.
         i.   Site plan to be available at all times. A copy of the site plan,
as approved in conjunction with the current sidewalk café permit, shall be
maintained on the permittee's premises and shall be available for inspection by
city personnel at all times.
         j.   Applicable only to public right-of-way. The sidewalk café permit
covers only the public right-of-way described in the permit.
         k.   Hours of operation. Sidewalk cafés shall not operate after 12:01
a.m. or before 6:00 a.m.
         l.   Non-exclusive use of public right-of-way within sidewalk café.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, use of a portion of the public
right-of-way as a sidewalk café shall not be exclusive.
         m.   Public improvements. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to trees, light poles, parking meters, traffic signals, pull boxes, or
manholes, or any public initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence
over use of the public right-of-way as a sidewalk café.
         n.   Private improvements. All private improvements within a sidewalk
café, including but not limited to tables, chairs, benches and signs, shall
remain private property under control of the holder of the sidewalk café permit
and no person shall occupy or use such improvements without the consent of the
holder of such permit, or his or her designee.
         o.   Use by general public limited. Upon issuance of a permit
authorizing a sidewalk café every' provision of this code governing use of a
sidewalk, other than this chapter, shall apply only to the unobstructed
pedestrian pathway portion of the sidewalk café shown on the site plan.
         p.   Authority of chief of police. The chief of police or his or her
designee may order the removal of the sidewalk café for public health and
safety purposes. The city, its officers and employees, shall not be responsible
for sidewalk café fixtures that are relocated or damaged.
         q.   Special event. A permit issued under this chapter shall be
suspended during a special event if the permit issued for such special event so
states.
         r.   Liability and insurance. As a condition of issuance of a sidewalk
café permit, the permittee shall agree to indemnify, defend, save, and hold
harmless the city, its officers and employees, from claims, liability,
lawsuits, damages, and causes of action, which may arise out of the permit or
the permittee's activity on the sidewalk café. In addition, the permittee
shall:
            (1)   Obtain commercial liability insurance for at least $1,000,000
per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage, with the city named as an
additional insured, with coverage including the area and operations of the
sidewalk café;
            (2)   Provide the city with an original certificate of insurance as
evidence that the requirements set forth in this section have been met before
commencing operations of a sidewalk café.
         s.   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall upon conviction be subject to City of East Dubuque Ordinance
Chapter 4:
1-4-1. A separate offense exists each calendar day during which a violation
occurs or continues beverage.
(Ord. 08-0609, 6-2-2008; amd. Ord. 24- 0608, 6-3-2024)
15-8A-4: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, or added to, so as to exceed a height of three (3) stories or
thirty six feet (36'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over
and above the maximum height, provided they are constructed in accordance with
all other pertinent City ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements: The following setback requirements are hereby
established:
      1.   Front Setback: No front setback is required except as necessary to
provide a sidewalk between the building and the street of not less than eight
feet (8'). This shall be required on all sides of a lot or parcel of land that
are adjacent to an improved public street.
      2.   Space Between Adjacent Buildings: Adjacent buildings shall be
separated by a space not less than ten feet (10') from wall to wall unless such
buildings are to be joined at a fireproof party wall.
   C.   Rear Yard: Unless a rear lot line is congruent with the line of a
public right-of-way, a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10') is required.
(Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8A-5: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Chapter 3 of this Title, as
appropriate:
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. (Ord. 19-1109, 11-4-2019; amd.
Ord. 20-0315, 3-11-2020)
ARTICLE B. AUTOMOBILE-ORIENTED BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-8B-1: Intent
15-8B-2: Permitted Uses And Conditions
15-8B-3: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-8B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing an automobile-oriented business district is to
delimit certain areas for the construction and/or operation of those commercial
activities which serve or attract an excessive amount of automobile traffic and
which, because of this, are more suitable in a noncentral business district or
downtown location. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8B-2: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONS:
The following uses are permitted within the automobile-oriented business
district:
   A.   Commercial establishments which are oriented to the motorist or to the
highway, such as drive-in restaurants, filling stations, auto repair and body
shops, car washes, motels, truck stops, or truck terminals.
   B.   Commercial establishments requiring large sites for outdoor display,
such as farm implement sales, mobile home sales, and building material sales.
   C.   Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses, including
signs as regulated by this title:
      1.   Off-Premises Signs: Such signs shall conform to the regulations as
set forth in subsection
15-8A-2E of this chapter.
   D.   All activities shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building
with the exception of the following:
      1.   Automobile or truck servicing, but not repair.
      2.   Sales activities in outdoor display areas.
      3.   Off-street parking and loading activities.
   E.   No principal or accessory use shall encroach upon a public right of
way. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-8B-3: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, or added to so as to exceed a height of two (2) stories or
twenty four feet (24'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over
and above the maximum height, provided they are constructed in accordance with
all other pertinent city ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements:
      1.   To allow for the provision of adequate off-street parking and
loading, the following setback requirements are established:
         a.   Front Setback: The front setback shall not be less than fifty
percent (50%) of the depth of the lot; except, that a front setback in excess
of fifty feet (50') shall not be required nor shall a front setback of less
than thirty feet (30') be permitted.
         b.   Space Between Adjacent Buildings: Adjacent buildings shall be
separated by a space not less than ten feet (10') from wall to wall unless such
buildings are to be joined at a fireproof party wall.
         c.   Rear Yard: Unless a rear lot line is congruent with the line of a
public right of way, a rear yard of not less than feet (10') is required.
      2.   Note that parking lots are permitted within any of these setback
areas in accordance with chapter 6 of this title, and provided, that use of
such parking lot does not require backing out into a public street. (Ord., 4-
26-1978)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
15-9-1: Purpose Of Industrial Districts
15-9-2: Performance Standards
15-9-1: PURPOSE OF INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
The industrial districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare and to protect the
economic base of the city as well as the value of land by regulating
manufacturing development in appropriate locations. These general objectives
include, among others, the following specific objectives:
   A.   To protect established residential areas and the health of families
living therein by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities which may
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, fire
hazards, excessive traffic, and other objectionable influences to those areas
which are appropriate therefor.
   B.   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations for most types of
manufacturing and related activities so that the economic structure of the
community may be strengthened and that employment opportunities may be found in
the interest of public prosperity and welfare.
   C.   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to transportation so that the movement of raw materials, finished
products, and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a minimum of
danger to public life and property.
   D.   To establish proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities while at the same time encourage and permit
the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the processing
of finished products without adversely affecting the health, happiness, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the people living and working in nearby areas.
   E.   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land by
prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with plans for
city improvement and development.
   F.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well-
considered plan of land use for all of the city; to conserve the use of
property; to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development in each area of the community; to enhance and stabilize the value
of land; and to protect the tax base of the city. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-9-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following are performance standards for all industrial districts:
   A.   Noise: The creation of noise at levels sufficient to create a general
nuisance to occupants of the same or adjoining districts shall be prohibited.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dusts in an
amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to occupants of adjoining
properties or to the occupants in the general area wherein the use is located
shall be prohibited.
   C.   Odors: No offensive odors shall be emitted by any use permitted in an
industrial district in such quantities as to be readily detectable by the
average observer at any point on the boundary line of the nearest residential
or business district.
   D.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matters shall be from a stack not less than twenty five feet (25') in height.
   E.   Glare And Heat: Operations producing intense light or heat, when
adjacent to a residential or business district, shall be performed within an
enclosed building and not be visible beyond the boundary separating the subject
premises from any adjoining residential or business district.
   F.   Vibrations: There shall be no uses which create heavy, earth- shaking
vibrations which are noticeable at any residential or business district other
than necessary and temporary construction operations. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
ARTICLE A. GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-9A-1: Intent
15-9A-2: Permitted Uses
15-9A-3: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-9A-4: Special Uses
15-9A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a general industrial district is to delimit areas in
which necessary industrial activities may function in such a manner as to be
unobtrusive to adjacent nonindustrial uses and in which industrial activities
will be able to have the adequate space, transportation, and storage facilities
that they require. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the general industrial area: (Ord., 4-
26-1978)
   A.   All fabricating, manufacturing, processing, or storage of goods and
products; provided, that no activities involving the storage, utilization, or
manufacture of materials, goods, or products which could decompose by
detonation shall be permitted except such that are specifically approved by the
city council as a special use in accordance with chapter 5 of this title, and
provided further, that no junkyard shall be permitted except such that is
specifically approved by the city council as a special use in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord., 4-18-1988)
   B.   Wholesaling and terminal activities.
   C.   Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses.
   D.   Signs limited to not more than two (2) per establishment, other than
incidental signs necessary for the safe and efficient use of the premises.
      1.   Off Premises Signs: Such signs shall conform to the regulations as
set forth in subsection
15-8A-2E of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   E.   In addition to the above permitted uses, the following special uses may
be permitted by the city council in accordance with chapter 5 of this title:
      1.   Adult use. (Ord. 06-1014, 10-16-2006, eff. 10-16-2006)
15-9A-3: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be constructed, erected, altered, or
added to so as to exceed a height of three (3) stories or thirty six feet
(36'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks, and
necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and above the maximum
height, provided they are constructed in accordance with all other pertinent
city ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements: Yards, where there shall be no structure of any
kind, no open storage of materials or equipment, and no parking other than for
automobiles, shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards: There shall be an unobstructed side yard of not less
than fifteen feet (15') on both sides of any building or, if located on the
same lot or parcel, a distance between buildings equal to the average height of
the two (2) buildings.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than fifteen feet
(15') at the rear of any building. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-9A-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Chapter 3 of this Title, as
appropriate:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization.
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization.
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization. (Ord. 19-1109, 11-4-2019; amd.
Ord. 20-0315, 3-11-2020)
ARTICLE B. INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-9B-1: Intent
15-9B-2: Permitted Uses
15-9B-3: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-9B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing an industrial park district is to delimit areas in
which necessary industrial activities of a light nature and certain commercial
activities that require excessive exterior space for storage or equipment
parking may be located and/or operated. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-9B-2: PERMITTED USES:
An industrial park shall be considered as a planned unit development, and the
following uses shall be permitted therein:
   A.   All uses permitted within the general industrial district are permitted
in the industrial park district subject to the conditions enumerated under
section
15-9-2 of this chapter, and subject to the following additional conditions:
      1.   Uses that require the harboring of live animals other than in
enclosed buildings are prohibited.
      2.   This title shall not preclude the establishment of additional
requirements or conditions by the developers of an industrial park that are
more stringent than those contained herein.
      3.   In addition to the sign regulations in subsection
15-9A-2D of this chapter, the industrial park may be identified by not more
than one sign at each entry thereto.
   B.   In addition to the above permitted uses, the following special uses may
be permitted by the city council in accordance with chapter 5 of this title:
      1.   Retail uses that require extensive outdoor storage facilities such
as an automobile or farm implement dealership.
      2.   Retail uses intended to serve only the employees of the industrial
park such as a restaurant or coffee shop.
      3.   Residential uses limited to facilities for caretakers, watchmen, or
on-call service personnel.
   C.   Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses. (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
15-9B-3: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: All building bulk and site planning requirements
within the industrial park district shall be the same as for the general
industrial district. This does not preclude the establishment of more stringent
standards by the developers or managers of the industrial park. (Ord., 4-26-
1978)
   B.   Special Requirements: The procedure for establishing special building
bulk and site planning requirements is set forth in section
15-5-5 of this title dealing with planned developments. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd.
2001 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
SECTION:
15-10-1: Purpose Of Conservation Districts
15-10-1: PURPOSE OF CONSERVATION DISTRICTS:
The conservation districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health and to promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and welfare. These general goals include the following specific
purposes:
   A.   To allow maximum freedom of operation for agriculture uses and to
protect such uses from encroachment by potential conflicting uses.
   B.   To provide for healthful, safe, nonfarm housing in a pleasant, rural
environment.
   C.   To protect the natural amenities of the East Dubuque area from harmful
exploitation.
   D.   To prevent excessive damage to structures caused by normal flooding of
the Mississippi River and its tributaries. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-10A-1: Permitted Uses
15-10A-2: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-10A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the agricultural district:
   A.   Farmsteads and agricultural operations, including farm dwellings.
   B.   Home occupations as regulated in section
15-3-8 of this title.
   C.   Kennels and veterinary establishments.
   D.   Structures for the commercial storage of farm crop products.
   E.   Nurseries and green houses.
   F.   Logging and sawmill operations subject to the performance standards of
industrial districts as outlined in chapter 9 of this title.
   G.   Off-premises signs as approved by the administrator and not more than
one permitted sign for each nonresidential establishment.
   H.   Special uses as permitted by chapter 5 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   I.   One mobile home dwelling per farm so long as the same is occupied by
the owner, his farm tenant or a farm employee who is actively engaged in
agriculture as his primary source of income. (Ord., 7-3-1989)
   J.   Other uses similar in nature to the above uses and which, in the
opinion of the city council, would not be detrimental to the intent and purpose
of the agricultural district. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-10A-2: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
Where applicable, these shall be the same as for the low density residential
district; except, that a minimum fifty foot (50') front yard setback is
required for all structures. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
ARTICLE B. RECREATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-10B-1: Permitted Uses
15-10B-2: Building Bulk And Site Planning Requirements
15-10B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the recreation district:
   A.   Recreation facilities of a commercial or semi-public nature such as a
golf course, sportsmen's clubs, resorts, and transient camping areas, including
associated restaurant facilities subject to pertinent city, county, and state
regulations.
   B.   Parks and playgrounds.
   C.   Swimming pools. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-10B-2: BUILDING BULK AND SITE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS:
Where applicable, these shall be the same as for the single- family residential
district; except, that a minimum fifty foot (50') front yard setback is
required for all structures. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 11
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
15-11-1: Authority To Petition For Amendment
15-11-2: Fee Requirements
15-11-3: Review Of Petition
15-11-4: Notice Of Public Hearings
15-11-5: Written Protests
15-11-6: Final Decision
15-11-1: AUTHORITY TO PETITION FOR AMENDMENT:
The city council and any private petitioner may apply for an amendment in the
text of this title and in the zoning map made a part of this title. (Ord., 4-
26-1978)
15-11-2: FEE REQUIREMENTS:
Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall be accompanied by a
filing fee as established by the city council, which fee shall be deposited
with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days after the receipt thereof, and no
part shall be returnable to the petitioner. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-11-3: REVIEW OF PETITION:
The regulations imposed and the zoning districts created under this title may
be amended by ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made by the city
council without public notice and without a public hearing held by the zoning
board of appeals and forward its recommendations to the city council within
thirty (30) days of the date the petition was submitted to the zoning board of
appeals unless it is withdrawn by the petitioner. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001
Code)
15-11-4: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The zoning board of appeals shall cause notice of public hearing of
petitioner's application to be given in the following manner:
   A.   By publishing notice of the time and place of such hearing in a paper
of general circulation in the city not less than fifteen (15) nor more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing;
   B.   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for which the
amendment is requested as well as a brief statement describing the proposed
amendment; and
   C.   By notifying such property owners, groups, or organizations as it deems
desirable of the proposal. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-11-5: WRITTEN PROTESTS:
In the event of written protest against the proposed amendment signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across the alley or rear line therefrom or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered as to such regulations or zoning district and filed with the city
clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all of the elected members of the city council. (Ord., 4-26-
1978; amd. 2001 Code)
15-11-6: FINAL DECISION:
The city council, without further public hearing, may adopt or deny the report
of the zoning board of appeals for any proposed amendment or may refer the
petition back to the zoning board of appeals for further consideration. (Ord.,
4-26-1978)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
15-12-1: Zoning Administrator
15-12-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
15-12-3: Procedure For Hearing Appeals
15-12-4: Permits And Certificates
15-12-5: Fees
15-12-6: Violations And Penalties
15-12-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall designate a
zoning administrator to be responsible for enforcing this title. Said zoning
administrator shall see that the provisions of this title are properly
enforced. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-12-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Purpose: Establishment of a zoning board of appeals is recommended by
state law and is intended to serve a twofold purpose. First, the board hears
appeals on, and either reverses or upholds, actions taken by the zoning
administrator in the administration of this title. Its decision stands unless
the appeal is carried to the city council which is the last recourse prior to
the courts. The second purpose of the zoning board of appeals is to act on
requests for variations. Here, in every case, they shall make a recommendation
to the city council to deny or permit the variation by ordinance. (Ord., 4-26-
1978; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Board Established; Membership And Terms Of Office: There is hereby
established a zoning board of appeals. Said board shall consist of seven (7)
members nominated by the mayor and appointed by the city council. The members
of said board shall serve for the following initial terms: one for one year;
one for two (2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for
five (5) years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. The
successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years.
   C.   Vacancies And Removals From Office: Vacancies shall be filled by the
mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council, for the unexpired term.
Members may be removed by the city council for cause after written charges have
been filed and after a public hearing has been held if demanded by the member
so charged.
   D.   Organization And Procedures:
      1.   Officers:
         a.   Chairman: One of the members of the board shall be designated by
the mayor, with the consent of the city council, as chairman of the board and
shall hold said office as chairman until a successor is appointed. The chairman
or, in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
         b.   Clerk: The city clerk shall act as the clerk for the board and
shall make and keep a record of all its meetings and official acts.
      2.   Meetings:
         a.   Time, Place And Notification: All meetings of the board shall be
held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may
determine. There shall be at least fifteen (15) days', but not more than thirty
(30) days', notice of the time and place of such meeting published in a paper
of general circulation in the city, said notice to contain a statement of the
particular purpose of such meeting and a brief description of the location of
the property or properties under consideration at such meeting.
         b.   Public Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be open to the
public.
      3.   Records Kept: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of
each case, and the board's recommendations to the city council to grant or deny
each application shall be specified. Every rule, regulation, and every order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the board shall immediately be filed
in the office of the city clerk and shall be a public record.
      4.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure, a copy of which, and all recommendations thereto, shall be filed in
the office of the city clerk.
   E.   Appeals And Review:
      1.   Authority To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the zoning
administrator charged with the enforcement of this title or by any officer,
department, board, or bureau of the city concerning the interpretation of this
title may take an appeal to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
      2.   Time For Appeal; Required Information: Such appeal shall be taken
within forty five (45) days to the zoning board of appeals and shall be taken
by filing with the city clerk and with the zoning board of appeals a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and exhibits as
are reasonably necessary. Such appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the
zoning board of appeals. The city clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board
all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken.
      3.   Powers Of The Board: The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner that the board may
decide to be fitting and proper in such circumstances, and to that end, the
board shall also have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   Reversal Of An Order: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the
board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the zoning administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this title to render
decisions.
   F.   Variations:
      1.   Variations Permitted: When a property owner or his agent shows that
a strict application of the terms of this title relating to the use,
construction, or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land
imposes upon him practical difficulties or particular hardship in that a
literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would deprive the
applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same district
under the terms of this title, then the board may recommend to the city
council, and the council may authorize by ordinance, such variations of the
strict application of the terms of this title as are in harmony with its
general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under the evidence
heard before it, that such variation will not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant nor merely to allow the applicant to receive greater revenue from
the use or sale of the property, but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable and unique hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a
variation from the provisions of this title, or in the following instances:
         a.   Extension Of A District: To permit the extension of a district
where the boundary line of a district divides a lot in single ownership as
shown to be on record prior to the date of passage of this title.
         b.   Lessening Of Yard Requirements: To permit a front yard, a side
yard, or a rear yard less than that required by this title but such variation
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of front yard or the
depth of the rear yard or the width of a side yard as required by this title.
         c.   Exceeding Height Limit: To permit a building to exceed the height
limit by not more than ten percent (10%) of the height limit established by
this title.
         d.   Lessening Lot Requirements: To permit the use of a lot less in
area by not more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area required by this title
unless such lot is an existing lot of record and governed by section
15-3-4 of this title. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
         e.   Interpretation Of Map: To interpret the provisions of this title
where the street layout, as shown on the map fixing the several districts,
which map is attached to the zoning ordinance and made a part of this title by
reference. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Criteria For Granting Variations: In considering all appeals and all
proposed variations to this title, the board shall, before recommending that
the city council grant any variation from this title in a specific case, first
determine and make a finding of fact that the proposed variation will not:
         a.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property.
         b.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets.
         c.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
         d.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
      3.   Application For Variation: An application for variation, as above
described, shall be made as follows:
         a.   Petition To Be Filed: The applicant shall file a petition for
variation with the city clerk, accompanied by a filing fee to be as established
by the city council 1 .
         b.   Form Of Petition: The petition shall set forth the facts and
details concerning the proposed variation and shall have attached thereto a
diagram or plan showing the result the proposed variation would have on the
subject property.
         c.   Date Of Filing: The petition shall be filed prior to the date the
notice of hearing hereinafter specified has been published in the local
newspaper.
         d.   Hearing Date And Notice: The city zoning board of appeals,
through its chairman, shall set a date, time, and place for public hearing on
the petition and shall inform the petitioner of same. Notice of the public
hearing of petitioner's application is to be given in the following manner:
            (1)   By publishing the notice of the date, time and place of such
hearing in a paper of general circulation in the city at least fifteen (15),
but not more than thirty (30), days prior to the hearing.
            (2)   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for
which the variation is requested as well as a brief statement describing the
proposed variation. The legal description shall, in addition to the required
metes and bounds or lot and block description, contain a simple description of
the property as to area and location of such a nature to enable the ordinary
reader to accurately locate such property.
            (3)   By sending copies of the notice of hearing to all property
owners of property which is adjacent to, abutting, or across the road, street,
or alley from the property in question.
      4.   Prohibited Variations: A petition for a variation for the
establishment of a use not permitted within the intended district shall not be
granted.
      5.   Hearing; Action By City Council:
         a.   No variation in any case shall be made by the city council
without a hearing by the zoning board of appeals as required herein nor without
a report thereof having been made by the board to the city council, and every
report shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the reasons for the
report recommendations.
         b.   Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals, the city council,
without further public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may
refer the report back to the board for further consideration.
      6.   Validity Of Variation: No order for a variation permitting the
erection or alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer than
six (6) months unless such use is established within such period; provided,
however, that where such use permitted is dependent upon the erection or
alteration of a building, such order shall continue in force and effect if a
building permit for said erection or alteration is obtained within such period
and such erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of such permit.
   G.   Powers Of Board Limited: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
give or grant to the zoning board of appeals the power or authority to alter or
change this title or any use district made a part of the zoning map, such power
and authority being reserved to the city council, and the board shall not have
any power or authority with respect to any alterations or change of this title
except to make recommendations to the city council in such specific cases as
may properly come before the zoning board of appeals. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  15-12-5 of this chapter.
15-12-3: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING APPEALS:
   A.   Stay Of Proceedings: The appeal shall stay all proceedings and
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator
certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case, the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or a court of record on application,
with notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and all due causes
shown. (Ord., 4-26-1978; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Hearing: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and
place for the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons
appealing and to the officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear the
appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearings, parties of interest may
appear in person or by agent or attorney. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
15-12-4: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or structurally altered until a building permit has been issued by the City
stating that the building or structure and use of land comply with the
regulations of this title and all building and health laws and ordinances of
the City. Standard specifications for paving, wastewater, storm sewer and water
can be found at City Hall.
      2.   Application For Permit:
         a.   Contents: To obtain a permit, the owner or his/her representative
shall file an application therefor on a form furnished by the City for that
purpose, and said application shall include a signed statement indicating the
purpose of the building unit. A set of plans must be furnished at the time of
the permit application. Said plan shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
            (1)   Plot plan: Showing location and distance from lot lines of
existing and proposed structures.
            (2)   Foundation plan: Showing detail of size, height and
reinforcement used in footings and foundations wall. Size of the spacing of
concrete pads must also be included.
            (3)   Complete floor plan: Showing dimensions and uses of each
room, also window and door locations and sizes.
            (4)   Structural plan: Showing member sizing and spacing for walls,
floors and roof.
         b.   Exception: The Zoning Administrator may reduce or waive the
requirements of submission of plans if he/she finds that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain
competence with this chapter.
         c.   Additional Information: The Zoning Administrator may require
additional information dependent upon the scope of the project. All additional
fees are the responsibility of the owner of the property.
      3.   Voided Permits: A permit issued through the presentation of a false
or misleading application shall be void. Individuals working under void permits
shall be subject to the penalties described in this chapter as though no permit
was ever issued. No refund shall be made to anyone obtaining a void permit.
(Ord. 16-0110, 1-4-2016; amd. Ord. 23-0726, 7-24-2023)
15-12-5: FEES:
Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, certificates of compliance,
variations, and for appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be established
by action of the City Council from time to time. Such fees shall be paid to the
City Clerk who shall give a receipt therefor and account for same at regular
intervals to the City Council. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   A.   Fee Schedule:
      BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Construction Cost Fee
Construction Cost           Fee
   $0.00 - $500.00       $ 20.00
   $501.00 - $1,000.00   25.00
   $1,001.00 - $1,500.00 30.00
   $1,501.00 - $2,000.00 35.00
   $2,001.00 - $2,500.00 40.00
   $2,501.00 - $5,000.00 45.00
   $5,001.00 - $7,500.00 50.00
   $7,501.00 - $10,000.0055.00
   $10,001.00 - $12,500.060.00
   $12,501.00 - $15,000.065.00
   $15,001.00 - $17,500.070.00
   $17,501.00 - $20,000.075.00
   $20,001.00 - $22,500.080.00
   $22,501.00 - $25,000.085.00
   $25,001.00 - $27,500.090.00
   $27,501.00 - $30,000.095.00
   $30,001.00 - $32,500.0100.00
   $32,501.00 - $35,000.0105.00
   $35,001.00 - $37,500.0110.00
   $37,501.00 - $40,000.0115.00
   $40,001.00 - $42,500.0120.00
   $42,501.00 - $45,000.0125.00
   $45,001.00 - $47,500.0130.00
   $47,501.00 - $50,000.0135.00
   $50,001.00 - $52,500.0140.00
   $52,501.00 - $55,000.0145.00
   $55,001.00 - $57,500.0150.00
   $57,501.00 - $60,000.0155.00
   $60,001.00 - $62,500.0160.00
   $62,501.00 - $65,000.0165.00
   $65,001.00 - $67,500.0170.00
   $67,501.00 - $70,000.0175.00
   $70,001.00 - $72,500.0180.00
   $72,501.00 - $75,000.0185.00
   $75,001.00 - $77,500.0190.00
   $77,501.00 - $80,000.0195.00
   $80,001.00 - $82,500.0200.00
   $82,501.00 - $85,000.0205.00
   $85,001.00 - $87,500.0210.00
   $87,501.00 - $90,000.0215.00
   $90,001.00 - $92,500.0220.00
   $92,501.00 - $95,000.0225.00
   $95,001.00 - $97,500.0230.00
   $97,501.00 - $100,000.235.00
 
For each additional $2,500.00 add $5.00.                               
Amendment to zoning map requests:                                      
Commercial or industrial parcels                                      $150.00
Single residential lots or parcels                                    150.00
Variance requests:                                                     
Commercial or industrial parcels                                      150.00
Single residential lots or parcels                                    150.00
Permit for demolition of building/structure                           50.00
Installation or repair of front sidewalk                              Free
Minor exterior repairs, including painting, general maintenance       Free
Minor interior repairs, including painting, carpeting up to $5,000.00 Free
Exception: Title 17, chapter 1, "Development In Floodplain Areas", section
17-1-7, "Protecting Buildings", of this Code.
 
(Ord. 17-0916, 9-18-2017)
   B.   Late Payment Of Fees: The fees payable under this section, and other
fees payable under this title shall be doubled in the event such fees are not
paid within seven (7) business days of notification from the Zoning Office
(i.e., construction commencing prior to obtaining a building permit). (Ord. 09-
1222, 12-21-2009)
15-12-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: The Zoning Administrator shall give written
notification of any violation of this title to the owner or lessor of or the
trustee or other legally responsible party for such property, stating in such
notification that he has inspected the property and has found it in violation
of this title. He shall state in the notification in clear, precise terms, a
description or explanation of the violation. The property owner, trustee,
lessor, or legally responsible party shall have thirty (30) days in which to
correct such violation or to give satisfactory evidence that he has taken steps
that will lead to correcting such violation within a stated period of time,
which time must be agreeable to the Zoning Administrator as being fair and
reasonable.
   B.   Time Limitation For Correction Of Violation: The owner, trustee, lessor
or other legally responsible party shall be deemed to be in violation of this
title if, after thirty (30) days, the violation has not been corrected or is
not in the process of being corrected within a reasonable length of time, or
time in which correction will be made has not been approved by the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord., 4-26-1978)
   C.   Stop Work Order: In the event any work is started prior to following
proper procedures as provided by this title, a stop work order may be issued by
the Zoning Administrator, the City Manager, and/or the Mayor. An immediate fine
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) will be imposed. After the stop work
order is issued, and before work may be continued, the violator will be given
three (3) working days to commence the procedure necessary to obtain the proper
permits and in all ways come into compliance with this title. If the violator
fails to commence the procedure to obtain the proper permit within three (3)
working days, a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be imposed and for
each day thereafter until such procedure is commenced, but not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. (Ord. 09-1222, 12-21-2009)
TITLE 16
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS; GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
16-1-1: Short Title
16-1-2: Purpose; Minimum Requirements
16-1-3: Definitions; General Provisions
16-1-4: Applicability Of Provisions
16-1-5: Conformance To City Plan
16-1-6: Recording Of Subdivision Plats
16-1-7: Streets, Alleys And Easements
16-1-8: Blocks
16-1-9: Lots
16-1-10: Dedication Of Sites For Parks, Playgrounds And Schools
16-1-11: Exceptional Sized Lots
16-1-12: Installation Of Improvements
16-1-13: Modification Of Requirements
16-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF EAST
DUBUQUE, ILLINOIS. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-2: PURPOSE; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of these regulations is to aid and to control the subdivision of
land in the interest of coordinated development of the city, to establish a
consistent policy upon plats submitted to the city council, and to enable them
to ascertain whether the same conforms to the applicable statutes and
ordinances. These regulations are established as the minimum requirements to
effect the purpose. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-3: DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used herein, are defined, for the purpose
of this title, as follows:
ALLEY: A narrow thoroughfare upon which abuts generally the rear of premises or
upon which service entrances of buildings abut, and which is not generally used
as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, or which is not used for
general traffic circulation or which is not in excess of thirty feet (30') in
width at its intersection with a street.
BLOCK: That property on one side of a street between two (2) adjacent streets
which intersect the street in question.
COUNCIL, CITY: The city council of the city of East Dubuque.
EASEMENT: A portion of a lot or block in which the city and all public
utilities enfranchised by the city have a right of passage and to install and
maintain pipes, wires, poles, conduits and other equipment necessary to carry
out public services.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory
buildings and uses and including the open spaces required under these
regulations. A "lot" may be land so recorded on the records of the recorder of
deeds or in the office of the registrar of titles of Jo Daviess County,
Illinois, but it may include parts of or a combination of such ground as used
for only one improvement, and resubdivided or combined and properly recorded.
OWNER: The person or persons having title to the land subdivided, both legal
and equitable.
PERSON: Includes an individual, two (2) or more individuals, a group or
association of persons having common or individual interest in a tract, a
partnership, and a corporation.
STREET, PUBLIC: A "public street" is a dedicated, platted, and recorded
passageway forty feet (40') or over in width commonly used for public travel.
Cul-De-Sac: A short minor street terminating in a turnaround and having only
one outlet.
Main Traffic Thoroughfare: A street of considerable continuity which is
primarily a traffic artery for intercommunication between and among large
areas.
Minor: A street primarily for access to abutting properties.
Secondary Traffic Thoroughfare: A street supplementary to a major street system
and primarily a means of intercommunication between the system and smaller
areas, or among smaller areas.
SUBDIVIDER: A person undertaking the subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, block, tract, or parcel of land into two (2)
or more lots or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
of the transfer of ownership or building development, including all changes in
street lines or lot lines. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
16-1-4: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
These regulations shall apply to all land to be subdivided within the city and
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the limits of the city, except to land
divided into two (2) parcels, no part of which is dedicated to public use.
(Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
16-1-5: CONFORMANCE TO CITY PLAN:
All lands proposed for subdivision shall not conflict or interfere with the
rights of way or extensions of streets already established. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-6: RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLATS:
Whenever any "person", as defined in section
16-1-3 of this chapter, shall subdivide any tract of land within the limits of
the city, or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the limits of the city,
into three (3) or more parcels, he shall record a plat thereof in the office of
the county recorder, which plat shall first have been prepared and approved in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
16-1-7: STREETS, ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Street Widths:
      1.   The minimum width of right of way for a main traffic thoroughfare in
a residence subdivision shall be sixty four feet (64'); for a secondary traffic
thoroughfare, sixty feet (60'); and for a minor street, fifty feet (50').
      2.   The minimum width of right of way for a cul-de-sac shall be fifty
feet (50').
   B.   Street Intersections: Intersection streets shall meet at right angles,
ninety degrees (90°), whenever possible.
   C.   Street Alignment:
      1.   Thoroughfares: Thoroughfares shall be continued in as direct
alignment as topography and other conditions permit.
      2.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall conform to the prevailing
topography of the subdivision.
   D.   Street Grades:
      1.   Minimum Grade: The minimum gradient for all streets shall be one-
half percent (1/2%).
      2.   Maximum Grade: The maximum gradient for major traffic thoroughfares
shall be eight percent (8%); for secondary traffic thoroughfares, ten percent
(10%); and for minor streets, fifteen percent (15%).
      3.   Variances: A variation from these requirements may be made to meet
the existing conditions of topography by the city council.
   E.   Cul-De-Sacs: The minimum radius to the street line of a turnaround at
the terminus of the street shall be forty feet (40'). (Ord., 12-5-1961)
   F.   Alleys: Alleys shall not be permitted in a residential subdivision,
except where special conditions require. When permitted, alleys shall have a
minimum width of thirty feet (30'). (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   G.   Adjoining Street Systems: All proposed thoroughfares shall be
continuous and in alignment with existing thoroughfares and streets and of the
same or greater width. When conditions permit, main traffic thoroughfares shall
abut subdivisions and not pass through them.
   H.   Names Of Streets:
      1.   Existing Streets: Streets that are in alignment with existing or
platted streets, or essentially so, shall bear the names of the existing
streets.
      2.   New Streets: Names for new streets shall not duplicate in spelling
or sound phonetically similar to existing street names in the city.
      3.   Approval Required: Street names shall be approved by the city
council.
   I.   Easements: Easements shall be provided as the city shall determine
necessary for public utilities requirements including storm and sanitary
sewers. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-8: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length:
      1.   Thoroughfares: The maximum length of blocks on a thoroughfare shall
be one thousand five hundred feet (1,500').
      2.   Minor Streets: The maximum length of blocks on a minor street shall
be seven hundred fifty feet (750').
   B.   Width: The minimum width of blocks shall be two hundred feet (200').
Ordinarily each block shall contain two (2) tiers of lots.
   C.   Numbering Required: All blocks shall be numbered for identification.
(Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-9: LOTS:
   A.   Lot Area And Dimensions:
      1.   The minimum area and dimensions for lots shall conform to the
current standards of the federal housing authority, but the minimum lot
frontage shall be sixty feet (60') for interior lots and seventy feet (70') for
corner lots.
      2.   All lots shall front on a public street, and lots with double
frontage shall not be permitted.
      3.   Triangular lots shall be avoided whenever possible.
      4.   Tapered lots shall be sixty feet (60') wide on a line twenty five
feet (25') from the street right-of-way line.
   B.   Lot Lines: In all rectangular lots and, insofar as practical, in all
other shaped lots, the side lot lines shall be geometrically normal to the
street on which the lot fronts.
   C.   Numbering Lots: All lots shall be numbered systematically for proper
identification.
   D.   Remnant Lots: In cases where irregularity of ownership or street lines
would produce remnant lots, the area of which would be less than the minimum
area required, such areas shall be added to adjoining lots. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-10: DEDICATION OF SITES FOR PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND SCHOOLS:
In subdividing property, due consideration shall be given by the subdivider to
the dedication of suitable sites for parks, playgrounds and schools so as to
conform as nearly as possible to the needs of the city and the adjacent area.
Such provision shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may
be determined when, whether, and in what manner such sites will be dedicated to
the public. One lot in each fifty (50) lots shall be dedicated to the city as a
playground area. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-11: EXCEPTIONAL SIZED LOTS:
When the tract is subdivided into larger parcels than the usual building lots,
such tract shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major streets and
the ultimate extension of minor streets, and such parcels shall be multiples,
in area, of units not less than the lot areas required by these regulations.
(Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-12: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Specifications: Improvements shall be installed by the subdivider in
accordance with applicable standard specifications of the city and the state
department of public health. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Lots To Be Marked: Each corner of each lot shall be marked by the
subdivider with a suitable iron stake or pipe. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-1-13: MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS:
Where special instances require, the city council may modify the requirements
of sections
16-1-7,
16-1-8 and
16-1-9 of this chapter, provided the modification carries out the intent and
purposes of these regulations. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
CHAPTER 2
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLATS
SECTION:
16-2-1: Purpose
16-2-2: Filing Procedure
16-2-3: Description Of Plat
16-2-4: Contents Of Plat
16-2-1: PURPOSE:
The preliminary plat shall inform the council of the intentions of the
subdivider in the layout of the subdivision and of the specific problems
connected therewith and to provide the basis of an examination of the design of
the subdivision and of the conformance of the plat to these regulations. (Ord.,
12-5-1961)
16-2-2: FILING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission To City Council: Where the subdivider proposes to dedicate
streets, roads, alleys, or other lands for public use, he shall submit ten (10)
copies of the preliminary plat to the council for tentative approval prior to
the completion of final surveys of streets and lots and before starting any
grading or construction work upon proposed streets, and before any final plat
of the subdivision is made. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Approval Or Disapproval: The council shall have the power to approve,
approve tentatively, or to disapprove any preliminary plat and shall transmit
its findings, in writing, to the subdivider.
   C.   Scope Of Approval; Expiration: The approval of the preliminary plat by
the council does not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision but only
approval of the basic design of the subdivision and its conformity to its
regulations. The preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of one hundred
twenty (120) days.
   D.   Exemption From Filing: Where the subdivider does not propose to
dedicate land for streets, alleys, or other public uses (except easements for
public utilities requirements, including storm and sanitary sewers) a
preliminary plat is not required. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-2-3: DESCRIPTION OF PLAT:
Preliminary plats shall be drawn:
   A.   On sheets eleven inches by fourteen inches (11" x 14") in size, or in
multiples thereof. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   To standard engineering scales.
   C.   Showing true north point, scales used, and date of completion of the
preliminary plat.
   D.   With a title accurately and clearly indicating the name of the
subdivision, the names of the owners and subdivider, and the names of the civil
engineer or land surveyor platting the tract. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-2-4: CONTENTS OF PLAT:
   A.   Preliminary plats shall show:
      1.   The true boundary lines of land being subdivided.
      2.   Intersecting boundary lines of adjacent property and names of
owners.
      3.   Municipal, county and section lines when intersecting the property.
      4.   Topography of the tract being subdivided, with contours of two foot
(2') intervals, based on city datum.
      5.   Location, width, and names of all existing or platted streets, other
public ways, and platted or recorded easements within or adjacent three hundred
feet (300') to the tract, and existing permanent buildings, public property,
railroad rights of way, and any other important features.
      6.   Location of existing water mains, sewers, drains, gas lines, and any
other underground facilities with their sizes and location of electric lines,
culverts, and bridges within the property adjacent one hundred feet (100') to
the tract.
      7.   The proposed layout, location, and dimensions of streets, alleys,
blocks, lots, easements, and areas to be dedicated for parks, playgrounds, and
schools.
      8.   Preliminary plan and profiles of each proposed street on the center
line of the roadway, with proposed grades.
      9.   Cross sections of the types of proposed streets showing width of
right of way and roadway, location and width of proposed sidewalks, and the
location and size of utility mains.
      10.   Preliminary location and tentative profiles of proposed sanitary
and storm sewers with gradients and pipe sizes.
      11.   Preliminary location of proposed water distribution system showing
pipe sizes, valves and fire hydrants. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
   B.   The information required under subsections A2 and A5 of this section
relating to adjacent property may be shown on a separate drawing, entitled
"Vicinity Map", accompanying the preliminary plat and properly certified.
   C.   The information required under subsections A4, A8, A9, A10, and A11 of
this section shall be shown on separate drawings accompanying the preliminary
plat and properly certified.
   D.   Subsections A1 to and including A7 of this section shall be prepared by
a registered engineer, or surveyor, and subsections A8 to and including A11 of
this section shall be prepared by a registered engineer. The drawings prepared
by an engineer or surveyor shall bear his official registration seal. (Ord.,
12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLATS
SECTION:
16-3-1: Purpose
16-3-2: Filing Procedure
16-3-3: Description Of Plat
16-3-4: Contents Of Plat
16-3-5: Certificates Required
16-3-6: Required Improvements
16-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the final plat is to provide a permanent record plan of the
subdivision, as built, for filing with the county recorder. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-3-2: FILING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission To City Council; Time Limit For Review: The subdivider shall
file the original drawings and three (3) copies of the final plat with the city
council for approval, and the council shall have sixty (60) days to act upon
the same. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Examination; Compliance With Provisions: All final plats shall be
examined by the council to determine that the same conform to the state
statutes and the subdivision regulations relating to plats within the city and
whether streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, and other public places conform to
an orderly development, and do not conflict or interfere with rights of way or
extensions of streets, roads, and alleys already established.
   C.   Approval Or Disapproval: The council shall have the power to approve,
approve conditionally, or to disapprove any final plat.
      1.   Approval: If the council approves the final plat, it shall endorse
its approval upon the original drawing.
      2.   Conditional Approval Or Disapproval: If the council approves a final
plat with conditions or disapproves a final plat, it shall transmit its
findings to the subdivider, and the subdivider shall not resubmit the final
plat until all conditions or limitations shall have been corrected. (Ord., 12-
5-1961)
16-3-3: DESCRIPTION OF PLAT:
Final plats and profiles shall be drawn:
   A.   On sheets eleven inches by fourteen inches (11" x 14") in size, or in
multiples thereof. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   At standard engineering scales:
      1.   Horizontal scales, one inch (1") equals forty (40), fifty (50),
sixty (60) or one hundred feet (100').
      2.   Vertical scales, one inch (1") equals four (4) or eight feet (8'),
or one inch (1") equals ten feet (10').
   C.   Showing true north point, scales used, and date of completion of the
final plat.
   D.   With a title accurately and clearly indicating the name under which the
subdivision is to be recorded, the names of the owners and subdivider, and the
names of the civil engineer or land surveyor platting the tract. (Ord., 12-5-
1961)
16-3-4: CONTENTS OF PLAT:
   A.   Final plats and profiles shall show:
      1.   Boundaries of the subdivision with accurate dimensions and bearings
and the location and description of all monuments.
      2.   Municipal, county and section lines when intersecting the property.
      3.   Location, width, and names of all existing or platted streets, or
other public ways, and easements within and adjacent forty feet (40') to the
tract.
      4.   Location and accurate dimensions of all proposed streets, alleys,
blocks, lot lines, easements and areas to be dedicated for parks, playgrounds
and schools.
      5.   Plans and profiles of each proposed and established street, road, or
alley on the center line of the roadway.
      6.   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewers with
gradients and pipe sizes.
      7.   Plans and profiles of proposed water distribution systems showing
pipe sizes and the location of all valves and fire hydrants.
      8.   All radii, chords, points of curvature, points of tangency, bearings
of tangents, central angles and length and degree of curves.
      9.   Names of all streets.
      10.   Block and lot numbers.
      11.   Description of property subdivided showing location and extent.
   B.   The information required under subsections A5, A6, A7, and A8 of this
section shall be shown on separate drawings accompanying the final plat and
properly certified. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
   C.   Subsections A1 to and including A5 shall be prepared by a registered
surveyor and subsections A6 to and including A11 of this section shall be
prepared by a registered engineer. In both instances, the drawings shall bear
the official registration seal of the surveyor or engineer. (Ord., 12-5-1961;
amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Where the subdivider does not propose to dedicate land for streets,
alleys or other public uses (except easements for utilities), the information
required by subsections A4, A5, A6, A7 and A8 of this section shall not be
required. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-3-5: CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
In addition to the information required by sections
16-3-2,
16-3-3 and
16-3-4 of this chapter, the final plat, when submitted by the city council,
shall have attached thereto the following:
   A.   A dedicatory certificate executed by the owners.
   B.   The opinion of a qualified attorney at law dated as of the date of the
submission to the city council, certifying that the title to the land platted
is in the persons signing as owners, free and clear of all liens or
encumbrances. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
16-3-6: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvements Required; Guarantee: As a condition to the approval of the
final plat of property within city limits, the city council may require the
subdivider to bring any streets, roads, and alleys to a grade as shown by the
profiles attached to the final plat and to install improvements shown on the
plat and supporting documents, together with such other improvements as the
city council determines necessary and authorized by law. The city council may
further require the subdivider to provide security for the maintenance of such
improvements or to provide security guaranteeing the installation of such
improvements within a fixed time and maintenance thereafter and approve the
final plat conditioned upon receipt of such security. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
   B.   Improvement Standards:
      1.   Sanitary Sewers: Sanitary sewers connected to the city sanitary
sewer system shall be installed by the subdivider to meet the standards of
federal, state and local governments and shall also conform to the following
regulations:
         a.   House connection wyes to serve each individual lot shall be
installed in sewer main, with pipe risers in deep sections to within nine feet
(9') of final street grade.
         b.   House connection service laterals shall be extended from the main
to the property line at each lot before permanent street surfacing is
constructed.
         c.   Minimum main sewer size shall be twelve inches (12") diameter and
minimum lateral size shall be four inches (4") diameter. (Ord., 12-5-1961; amd.
2001 Code)
      2.   Water Service: Water service connected to the city water system
shall be installed by the subdivider to meet the standards of federal, state
and local governments and shall also conform to the following regulations:
         a.   Minimum main size in street shall be six inch (6") diameter pipe.
Cast and ductile iron pipe shall be cement mortar lined. Fittings should be
cement mortar lined.
         b.   Hydrants shall have a six inch (6") minimum diameter gate valve
on six inch (6") hydrant pipe feed to main. Hydrants shall be installed at
intervals no greater than five hundred feet (500') and possibly shorter
depending upon the area being served. Hydrants and hydrant valves will be
furnished according to city requirements.
         c.   Shutoff valves and street boxes shall be installed on mains at
intervals no greater than three hundred feet (300') depending upon the area
being served. (Ord., 4-7-1975; amd. 2001 Code)
         d.   House laterals of copper pipe shall be installed from main to
property line at each lot, and shall include a corporation cock at the main,
and a curb box and shutoff valve at the property line. Laterals shall be
installed before permanent street surfacing is constructed.
         e.   Dead-end mains shall be minimized as much as possible by looping
of the mains. Where dead-end mains occur, they shall be provided with a fire
hydrant, flushing hydrant or blow-off for flushing purposes.
         f.   Subdivision developments will not be approved in an area which
presently does not have sufficient pressure and fire flow available in the
distribution system to provide adequate fire protection for the type of
development planned as recommended by the insurance service office of Illinois.
      3.   Streets:
         a.   Streets connected to the city street system shall be constructed
by the subdivider. Materials and construction methods shall comply with the
standards of the Illinois department of transportation, and shall also conform
to that type of finished street determined by the council from the following
types:
            (1)   Portland cement concrete curb and gutter with hot-laid
bituminous concrete street surface. The street shall be thirty feet (30') wide
between curb faces, with eight inch (8") thick compacted three-fourths inch (3/
4") crushed stone base and three inch (3") hot laid bituminous concrete street
surfaces. The bituminous concrete shall be laid in at least two (2) courses.
            (2)   Portland cement concrete curb and gutter with seven inch (7")
thick portland cement concrete street surface. The street shall be thirty feet
(30') wide between curb faces, and the curb and gutter may be either integral
or separate.
         b.   Widths and thicknesses above are for minor streets only. Greater
widths and thicknesses may be required by the council for streets carrying
other than neighborhood traffic. The above are considered permanent street
surfaces. (Ord., 4-7-1975)
      4.   Storm Sewers: Storm sewers shall be installed by the subdivider to
meet the standards of the Illinois division of highways, and shall also conform
to the following regulations:
         a.   Minimum pipe size shall be twelve inch (12") diameter for both
main sewer and catch basin laterals. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
         b.   Catch basins shall be installed at intervals not greater than
five hundred feet (500'). (Ord., 12-5-961; amd. 2001 Code)
         c.   Storm sewer manholes, laterals, and catch basins shall be
installed before permanent street surface is constructed.
      5.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be of four inch (4") concrete, four feet
(4') wide, one foot (1') from the property line, and shall be constructed in
accordance with specifications of the Illinois division of highways. Subdivider
will construct sidewalks when specifically directed to do so by the city
council as a condition of approval of the final plat. (Ord., 12-5-1961)
TITLE 17
FLOOD MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
17-1-1: Purpose
17-1-2: Definitions
17-1-3: Base Flood Elevation
17-1-4: Duties Of The Zoning Administrator
17-1-5: Development Permit
17-1-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
17-1-7: Protecting Buildings
17-1-8: Subdivision Requirements
17-1-9: Public Health And Other Standards
17-1-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
17-1-11: Variances
17-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
17-1-13: Penalty
17-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
17-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city of
East Dubuque by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the
following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
17-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
17-1-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects:
      1.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
      2.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
      3.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of East Dubuque,
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of East Dubuque, or that may be
annexed into the city of East Dubuque, that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The floodplains of the city of East Dubuque are generally
identified as such on panel number(s) 17085C0020C, 17085C0050C, 17085C0185C,
and 17085C0205C of the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated September 17,
2010. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by
the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Jo Daviess County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of East Dubuque or that
may be annexed into the city of East Dubuque are generally identified as such
on the flood insurance rate map prepared for Jo Daviess County by the federal
emergency management agency and dated September 17, 2010.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Mississippi River shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County
prepared by FEMA and dated September 17, 2010. The floodways for each of the
remaining floodplains of the city of East Dubuque shall be according to the
best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
17-1-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement, was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Mississippi River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood
insurance study of Jo Daviess County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated September 17, 2010.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo
Daviess County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Jo Daviess County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city of East Dubuque, or that may be annexed into the city
of East Dubuque, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
flood insurance study of Jo Daviess County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated September 17, 2010. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-4: DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The zoning administrator shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city of East Dubuque meet the requirements of
this chapter. Specifically, the zoning administrator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
17-1-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
17-1-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
17-1-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
17-1-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
17-1-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
17-1-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
17-1-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator
shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
17-1-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the zoning
administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The zoning administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
The zoning administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit-not-
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The zoning
administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         a.   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         a.   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         d.   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         e.   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         f.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         g.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         h.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
17-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
17-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
17-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The city of East Dubuque shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
17-1-6 and
17-1-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
17-1-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
17-1-6 and
17-1-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
17-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-
2010)
17-1-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of East Dubuque shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the city council.
The city council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of section
17-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
17-1-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
17-1-6 and
17-1-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of East Dubuque or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
17-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the city manager may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
city manager shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of East Dubuque shall make application to the circuit court
for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The city of East Dubuque shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   B.   The city manager shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The city manager is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate the
reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to resolve
the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of East Dubuque from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-
16-2010)
17-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city of East
Dubuque to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 10-0807, 8-16-2010)
CHAPTER 2
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
17-2-1: Findings Of Fact
17-2-2: Purpose
17-2-3: Applicability
17-2-4: Compatibility With Other Permit And Ordinance Requirements
17-2-5: Severability
17-2-6: Definitions
17-2-7: Permit Required
17-2-8: Application Requirements
17-2-9: Application Review Fees
17-2-10: Application Procedure
17-2-11: Permit Duration
17-2-12: Waivers For Providing Storm Water Management Or Drainage Reports
17-2-13: Fee In Lieu Of Storm Water Management Practices
17-2-14: Dedication Of Land
17-2-15: General Performance Criteria
17-2-16: Minimum Control Requirements
17-2-17: Site Design Feasibility (Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-18: Conveyance Issues (Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-19: Landscaping Plans Required (Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-20: Maintenance Agreements
17-2-21: Nonstructural Storm Water Practices (Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-22: Storm Water Management Plan Required For All Developments
17-2-23: Performance Bond/Security
17-2-24: Notice Of Construction Commencement
17-2-25: "As Built" Plans
17-2-26: Maintenance Easement
17-2-27: Maintenance Covenants
17-2-28: Requirements For Maintenance Covenants
17-2-29: Inspection Of Storm Water Facilities
17-2-30: Right Of Entry For Inspection
17-2-31: Records Of Installation And Maintenance Activities
17-2-32: Failure To Maintain Practices
17-2-33: Violations
17-2-34: Notice Of Violation
17-2-35: Stop Work Orders
17-2-36: Civil And Criminal Penalties
17-2-37: Restoration Of Lands
17-2-38: Holds On Occupation Permits
17-2-39: Effective Date
17-2-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
It is hereby determined that land development projects and associated increases
in impervious cover alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds and
increase storm water runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel
erosion, and sediment transport and deposition. Storm water runoff contributes
to increased quantities of waterborne pollutants, and storm water runoff, soil
erosion and nonpoint source pollution can be controlled and minimized through
the regulation of storm water runoff from development sites.
Therefore, the city of East Dubuque, Illinois, establishes this set of water
quality and quantity ordinances applicable to all surface waters to provide
reasonable guidance for the regulation of storm water runoff for the purpose of
protecting the general public and property and local water resources from
degradation. It is determined that the regulation of storm water runoff
discharges from land development projects and other construction activities in
order to control and minimize increases in storm water runoff rates and
volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and nonpoint source pollution
associated with storm water runoff is in the public interest and will prevent
threats to public health and safety. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum storm water management
requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety,
and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within the city. This chapter
seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
   A.   Minimize increases in storm water runoff from any development in order
to reduce flooding, siltation and stream bank erosion and maintain the
integrity of stream channels;
   B.   Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by storm water
runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   C.   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows
from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the
predevelopment hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable;
   D.   Conserve storm water for beneficial use;
   E.   Limit development in floodplains;
   F.   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and nonpoint
source pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management controls
and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose
no threat to public safety. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable to all subdivision or site plan applications
creating one or more acres of land disturbance activities, unless eligible for
an exemption or granted a waiver by the city under the specifications of
section
17-2-12 of this chapter. This chapter may also apply to land development
activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria if such
activities are part of a larger common plan of development that meets the
following applicability criteria, even though multiple separate and distinct
land development activities may take place at different times on different
schedules. In addition, all plans must also be reviewed by the city to ensure
that established water quality standards will be maintained during and after
development of the site and that postconstruction runoff levels are consistent
with any local plans.
To prevent the adverse impacts of storm water runoff, the city has developed a
set of storm water design standards titled Storm Water Design Standards - 2019
that must be met at new development sites. In this Chapter, all references to
the city’s storm water design standards are referring to Storm Water Design
Standards - 2019. These standards apply to any construction activity creating
one or more acres of land disturbing activity. The following activities may be
exempt from these storm water performance criteria:
   A.   Any logging or agricultural activity which is consistent with an
approved soil conservation plan or a timber management plan prepared or
approved by the soil and water conservation district, as applicable;
   B.   Additions or modifications to existing single-family structures;
   C.   Developments that do not create more than one acre of land disturbing
activities, provided they are not part of a larger common development plan;
   D.   Repairs to any storm water treatment practice deemed necessary by the
city.
When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a "redevelopment"
project as defined in section
17-2-6 of this chapter, decisions on permitting and on site storm water
requirements shall be governed by special storm water sizing criteria found in
the storm water design standards. These criteria are dependent on the amount of
impervious area created by the redevelopment and its impact on water quality.
Final authorization of all redevelopment projects will be determined after a
review by the city. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005; amd. Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-4: COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-5: SEVERABILITY:
If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision
or clause of this chapter shall be judged invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate the
remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause
of this chapter. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-6: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a storm water management permit.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): A practice, or combination of practices, that
is determined to be an effective and practicable (including technological,
economic, and institutional considerations) means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution generated by nonpoint sources to a level compatible with
water quality goals.
BUILDING: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property, and
occupying more than one hundred (100) square feet of area.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that
conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of East Dubuque, Illinois.
CITY MANAGER'S OFFICE: The office of the city manager of East Dubuque,
Illinois.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for general
public use.
DEVELOPER: A person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
EASEMENT: A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee allowing the use of
private land for storm water management purposes.
FEE IN LIEU: A payment of money in place of meeting all or part of the storm
water performance standards required by this chapter.
HOTSPOT: An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
storm water.
IMPERVIOUS COVER: Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall
(e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, etc.).
JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water
or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence
of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly
known as hydrophytic vegetation.
LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY: Any activity that changes the volume or peak flow
discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include the
grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of fill
materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or manmade watercourse.
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: A legally recorded document that acts as a property deed
restriction, and which provides for long term maintenance of storm water
management practices.
NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION: Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: A licensed professional engineer in the state of
Illinois who is responsible for any plans submitted to the city.
RECHARGE: The replenishment of underground water reserves.
REDEVELOPMENT: Any construction, alteration or improvement exceeding one acre
in area where existing land use is high density commercial, industrial,
institutional or multi-family residential.
STOP WORK ORDER: An order issued which requires that all construction activity
on a site be stopped.
STORM WATER DESIGN STANDARDS: That manual which is on file with the city
regulating storm water management practices.
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT: The use of structural or nonstructural practices that
are designed to reduce storm water runoff pollutant loads, discharge volumes,
and/or peak flow discharge rates.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: Flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
STORM WATER TREATMENT PRACTICES: Measures, either structural or nonstructural,
that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of preventing or
reducing point source or nonpoint source pollution inputs to storm water runoff
and water bodies. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005; amd. Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No landowner or land operator shall receive any of the grading or other land
development permits required for land disturbance activities impacting one or
more acres without first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to
commencing the proposed activity. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-8: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Unless specifically excluded by this chapter, any landowner or operator
desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity affecting one or more acres
shall submit to the city manager's office a grading permit application on a
form provided by the city manager's office for that purpose. The city has
adopted the forms and program used by the state of Illinois environmental
protection agency (IEPA) for the national pollutant discharge elimination
system (NPDES) phase II program. The city will accept the current state of
Illinois NPDES construction permit forms, notice of intent and storm water
pollution prevention plan and best management practices specified by the
Illinois environmental protection agency and requirements in the city's storm
water design standards. Unless otherwise accepted by this chapter, a grading
permit application must be accompanied by the following in order that the
permit application be considered: a storm water management concept plan; a
maintenance agreement; items required in the storm water design standards; and
a nonrefundable permit review fee. The storm water management plan shall be
prepared to meet the requirements of section
17-2-15 of this chapter and the storm water design standards, the maintenance
agreement shall be prepared to meet the requirements of section
17-2-20 of this chapter, and fees shall be those established by the city. (Ord.
05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-9: APPLICATION REVIEW FEES:
The fee for review of any land development application shall be based on the
amount of land to be disturbed at the site, and the fee structure shall be
established by the city. All of the monetary contributions shall be credited to
the designated city program account, and shall be made prior to the issuance of
any building permit for the development. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-10: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Applications for grading permits must be filed with the city manager's
office on any regular business day.
   B.   Permit applications shall include the following: two (2) copies of the
storm water management concept plan, two (2) copies of the Illinois
environmental protection agency NPDES required forms, two (2) copies of the
maintenance agreement, and any required review fees. For a detailed listing of
the required contents of the storm water management plan, see the city’s storm
water design standards.
   C.   Within two (2) weeks of the receipt of a complete permit application
and contingent upon approval of the NPDES phase II construction permit by the
Illinois environmental protection agency, including all documents as required
by this chapter, the city shall inform the applicant whether the application,
plan and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
   D.   If the permit application, storm water management plan or maintenance
agreement are disapproved, the applicant may revise the storm water management
plan or agreement. If additional information is submitted, the city shall have
two (2) weeks from the date the additional information is received to inform
the applicant that the plan and maintenance agreement are either approved or
disapproved, again contingent upon approval by the Illinois environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005; amd. Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-11: PERMIT DURATION:
Permits issued under this section shall be valid from the date of issuance
through the date the city notifies the permit holder that all storm water
management practices have passed the final inspection required under permit
conditions. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-12: WAIVERS FOR PROVIDING STORM WATER MANAGEMENT OR DRAINAGE REPORTS:
Every applicant shall provide for storm water management, unless they file a
written request to waive this requirement. Requests to waive the storm water
management plan requirements shall be submitted to the city manager's office
for approval. The minimum requirements for storm water management may be waived
in whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at
least one of the following conditions applies:
   A.   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely to
impair attainment of the objectives of this chapter.
   B.   The drainage report requirement may be waived by the city for
developments that have less than one acre of land disturbance activity.
   C.   For all developments, the proposed activity is in compliance with the
requirements of the city's floodplain ordinance. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-13: FEE IN LIEU OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Where the city waives all or part of the minimum storm water management
requirements, or where the waiver is based on the provision of adequate storm
water facilities provided downstream of the proposed development, the applicant
shall be required to pay a fee in an amount as determined by the city. When an
applicant obtains a waiver of the required storm water management, the monetary
contribution required shall be in accordance with a fee schedule (unless the
developer and the city agree on a greater alternate contribution) established
by the city, and based on the cubic feet of storage required for storm water
management of the development in question. All of the monetary contributions
shall be credited to the designated city program account, and shall be made by
the developer prior to the issuance of any grading permit for the development.
(Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-14: DEDICATION OF LAND:
In lieu of a monetary contribution, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the
required storm water management by entering into an agreement with the city for
the granting of an easement or the dedication of land by the applicant, to be
used for the construction of an off site storm water management facility. The
agreement shall be entered into by the applicant and the city prior to the
recording of plats or, if no record plat is required, prior to the issuance of
the building permit. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-15: GENERAL PERFORMANCE CRITERIA:
Unless judged by the city to be exempt or granted a waiver, the applicant shall
meet the following requirements as defined in the city's storm water design
standards:
   A.   Water quality volume controls.
   B.   Site runoff controls through the use of detention, retention, and best
management practices.
   C.   Stream channel protection.
   D.   Soil erosion and sediment controls. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005; amd.
Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-16: MINIMUM CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
All storm water management practices will be designed so that the specific
storm frequency storage volumes (e.g., recharge, water quality, channel
protection, 10-year, 100-year) as identified in the current storm water design
standards are met, unless the city grants the applicant a waiver or the
applicant is exempt from such requirements. In addition, if hydrologic or
topographic conditions warrant greater control than that provided by the
minimum control requirements, the city reserves the right to impose any and all
additional requirements deemed necessary to control the volume, timing, and
rate of runoff and impacts to floodplains. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-17: SITE DESIGN FEASIBILITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-18: CONVEYANCE ISSUES:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-19: LANDSCAPING PLANS REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-20: MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS:
All storm water treatment practices shall have an enforceable operation and
maintenance agreement to ensure the system functions as designed. This
agreement will include any and all maintenance easements required to
periodically access and inspect the storm water treatment practices, and to
perform routine maintenance as necessary to ensure proper functioning of the
storm water treatment practice. In addition, a legally binding covenant
specifying the parties responsible for the proper maintenance of all storm
water treatment practices shall be secured prior to issuance of any permits for
land disturbance activities. This covenant will include a demonstration of
financial capacity to implement the practices specified in the maintenance
agreement. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-21: NONSTRUCTURAL STORM WATER PRACTICES:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-0104, 1-20-2020)
17-2-22: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REQUIRED FOR ALL DEVELOPMENTS:
No application for development having one or more acres of land disturbance
activities will be approved unless it includes a storm water management plan
detailing in concept how runoff and associated water quality impacts resulting
from the development will be controlled or managed. This plan must be prepared
by a licensed professional engineer and must indicate whether storm water will
be managed on site or off site and, if on site, the general location and type
of practices.
The storm water management plan(s) shall be referred for comment to all other
interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in a final storm water
management plan. This final plan must be signed by a licensed professional
engineer, who will verify that the design of all storm water management
practices meets the submittal requirements outlined in the storm water design
standards. No building, grading, or sediment control permit shall be issued
until a satisfactory final storm water management plan, or a waiver thereof,
shall have undergone a review and been approved by the city after determining
that the plan or waiver is consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-23: PERFORMANCE BOND/SECURITY:
The city may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance
security or bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure that the
storm water practices are installed by the permit holder as required by the
approved storm water management plan. The amount of the installation
performance security shall be the total estimated construction cost of the
storm water management practices approved under the permit, plus twenty five
percent (25%). The performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for
failure to complete work specified in the storm water management plan.
The installation performance security shall be released in full only upon
submission of "as built" plans and written certification by a licensed
professional engineer that the storm water practices have been installed in
accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions of this
chapter. The city will make a final inspection of the storm water practices to
ensure that they are in compliance with the approved plan and the provisions of
this chapter. Provisions for a partial pro rata release of the performance
security based on the completion of various development stages can be done at
the discretion of the city. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-24: NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION COMMENCEMENT:
The applicant must notify the city forty eight (48) hours in advance before the
commencement of construction. Regular inspections of the storm water management
system construction may be conducted by the staff of the city, certified by a
licensed professional engineer or their designee who has been approved by the
city. All inspections shall be conducted by a licensed professional engineer
and be documented and written reports prepared that contain the following
information:
   A.   The date and location of the inspection;
   B.   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved storm water
management plan;
   C.   Variations from the approved construction specifications;
   D.   Any violations that exist;
   E.   If any violations are found, the property owner shall be notified in
writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions. No
added work shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work
previously completed has received approval by the city. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-
2005)
17-2-25: "AS BUILT" PLANS:
All applicants are required to submit actual "as built" plans for any storm
water management practices located on site after final construction is
completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all storm
water management facilities and must be certified by a licensed professional
engineer. A final inspection by the city is required before the release of any
performance securities can occur. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-26: MAINTENANCE EASEMENT:
Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a storm water management facility
as one of the requirements of the permit, the applicant or owner of the site
must execute a maintenance easement agreement that shall be binding on all
subsequent owners of land served by the storm water management facility. The
agreement shall provide for access to the facility at reasonable times for
periodic inspection by the city, or their contractor or agent, and for regular
or special assessments of property owners to ensure that the facility is
maintained in proper working condition to meet design standards and any other
provisions established by this chapter. The easement agreement shall be
recorded by the city in the Jo Daviess County auditor's office. (Ord. 05-1110,
11-21-2005)
17-2-27: MAINTENANCE COVENANTS:
Maintenance of all storm water management facilities, may, at the discretion of
the city, be ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance covenant that
must be approved by the city and recorded into the land record prior to final
plan approval. As part of the covenant, a schedule may be developed for when
and how often maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the storm
water management facility. The covenant shall also include plans for periodic
inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled
cleanouts.
The city, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may accept dedication of any
existing or future storm water management facility for maintenance, provided
such facility meets all the requirements of this chapter and includes adequate
and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for
inspection and regular maintenance. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-28: REQUIREMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE COVENANTS:
All storm water management facilities must undergo, at the minimum, a periodic
inspection to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and accomplishment of its purposes. These
needs may include removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch
basins, inlets and drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal, and
necessary replacement of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must
be addressed in a timely manner, as determined by the city, and the inspection
and maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure
proper functioning of the storm water management facility. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-
21-2005)
17-2-29: INSPECTION OF STORM WATER FACILITIES:
Inspection programs may be established on any reasonable basis, including, but
not limited to, routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon
complaints or other notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage
basins or areas identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other
contaminants or pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type
associated with higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or
with discharges of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to
cause violations of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or the
NPDES storm water permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting
under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not
limited to, reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, ground water, and material or water in drainage control
facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and
other storm water treatment practices. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-30: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
When any new storm water improvement or drainage control facility is installed
on private property, or when any new connection is made between private
property and a public drainage control system, sanitary sewer or combined
sewer, the property owner shall grant to the city the right to enter the
property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of
inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a
reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this chapter is occurring or
has occurred, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or
correction of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-31: RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES:
Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a storm water
management facility shall make records of the installation and of all
maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least three (3)
years. These records shall be made available to the environmental services
department during inspection of the facility and at other reasonable times upon
request. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-32: FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PRACTICES:
If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, the city, after reasonable notice, may correct a
violation of the design standards or maintenance needs by performing all
necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition. In the event
that the storm water management facility becomes a danger to public safety or
public health, the city shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of
the storm water management facility. Upon receipt of that notice, the
responsible person shall have, at the discretion of the city, up to thirty (30)
days to effect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved manner
dependent upon the nature of the repair. After proper notice, the city may
assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work and any
penalties; and the cost of the work shall be a lien on the property, or
prorated against the beneficial users of the property, and may be placed on the
tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by the county. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-
2005)
17-2-33: VIOLATIONS:
Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted contrary to this
chapter may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner
provided by law. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-34: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When the environmental services department determines that an activity is not
being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, it shall
issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the property. The notice of
violation shall contain:
   A.   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
   B.   The address when available or a description of the building, structure
or land upon which the violation is occurring;
   C.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
   D.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for
the completion of such remedial action;
   E.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed
against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
   F.   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the
city by filing a written notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days of service
of notice of violation. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-35: STOP WORK ORDERS:
Persons receiving a notice of violation will be required to halt all
construction activities. This "stop work order" will be in effect until the
city confirms that the development activity is in compliance and the violation
has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to address a notice of violation in
a timely manner can result in civil, criminal, or monetary penalties in
accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 05-
1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-36: CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty provided herein or by law,
any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a municipal
infraction and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each
day during which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-37: RESTORATION OF LANDS:
Any violator may be required to restore land to its undisturbed condition. In
the event that restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable time after
notice, the city may take necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall
become a lien upon the property until paid. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-38: HOLDS ON OCCUPATION PERMITS:
Occupation permits will not be granted until corrections to all storm water
practices have been made and accepted by the city. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
17-2-39: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its final passage
and publication as by law provided. (Ord. 05-1110, 11-21-2005)
