FAIRFIELD, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-0423-363, passed 4-23-2024
State legislation current through ALS 2024 Pamphlet No. 1
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 12-0828-41
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE UPDATED FAIRFIELD MUNICIPAL CODE
   FOR THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinance of the City of Fairfield
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the City of Fairfield to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the City Council has authorized a general compilation, revision and
codification of the ordinances of the City of Fairfield of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
Section 1.   The general ordinance of the City of Fairfield as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Fairfield,
Illinois.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
               Title I:   General Provisions
               Title III:   Administration
               Title V:   Public Works
               Title VII:   Traffic Code
               Title IX:   General Regulations
               Title XI:   Business Regulations
               Title XIII:   General Offenses
               Title XV:   Land Usage
               Table of Special Ordinances
               Parallel References
               Index
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuances of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Fairfield is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of
this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 28th day
of August, 2012.
                  Wayne M. Borah /s/
                  Mayor
ATTEST:
Tina Hutchcraft /s/
City Clerk
   CERTIFICATE
   I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
   I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance No. 12-0828-41 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois
adopted and approved on the 28th day of August, 2012.
                     Tina Hutchcraft /s/
                     City Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION
   I, the undersigned, City Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County,
Illinois, after first being sworn on oath, do hereby certify that I published
this Ordinance, together with the Fairfield Municipal Code adopted hereby, on
the 28th day of August, 2012, in pamphlet form by authority of the City Council
of the City of Fairfield, Illinois.
                     Tina Hutchcraft /s/
                     City Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            )
COUNTY OF WAYNE   )
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this  29th  day of  August , 2012.
      [SEAL]      
                     L. Denise Elliott /s/
                     Notary Public
ORDINANCE NO. 15-0609-91
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2015 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
   Section 1.   That the 2015 S-1 Supplement to the Code or Ordinances of the
City of Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield on this 9th
day of June, 2015.
                        Charles G. Griswold /s/
                         Mayor
ATTEST:
Tina Hutchcraft /s/
City Clerk
CERTIFICATE
   I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
   I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance No. 15-0609-91 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois
adopted and approved on the 9th day of June, 2015.
                        Tina Hutchcraft /s/
                        City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 16-0712-114
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fairfield,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City of Fairfield to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Fairfield and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 12th day
of July, 2016.
                         /s/
                        Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
CERTIFICATE
   I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
   I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance No. 16-0712-114 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois
adopted and approved on the 12th day of July, 2016.
                                                                      
                        City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 18-1009-162
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fairfield,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City of Fairfield to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Fairfield and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 9th day of
October, 2018.
                            /s/ Brent Maguire
                           Brent Maguire, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Tina Hutchcraft
Tina Hutchcraft, City Clerk
CERTIFICATE
   I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
   I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance No. 18-1009-162 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois
adopted and approved on the 9th day of October, 2018.
                                                                      
                        City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 20-0114-195
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City of Fairfield to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
Section 1.   That the 2019 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Fairfield and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 23rd day
of December, 2019.
 
                            /s/ Brent Maguire
                           Brent Maguire, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Tina Hutchcraft
Tina Hutchcraft, City Clerk
CERTIFICATE
I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein,
I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance
No. 20-0114-195 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois adopted and
approved on the 14th day of January, 2020.
                                                                      
                        City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 21-0427-253
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City of Fairfield to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
Section 1.   That the 2021 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Fairfield and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 27th day
of April, 2021.
                            /s/
                           Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Tina Hutchcraft
Tina Hutchcraft, City Clerk
CERTIFICATE
I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance
No. 21-0427-253 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois adopted and
approved on the 27th day of April, 2021.
                            /s/
                           City Clerk
 
ORDINANCE NO. 23-0110-320
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD, WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Fairfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City of Fairfield to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD:
Section 1.   That the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fairfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Fairfield and the Clerk of the City of
Fairfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Fairfield this 10th day
of January, 2023.
                                              /s/
                                             Gary Moore, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Tina Hutchcraft
Tina Hutchcraft, City Clerk
CERTIFICATE
I do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified, and acting City
Clerk of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, a municipal corporation, that I am
keeper of the records and City Seal of said City, and that I am well and truly
acquainted with the facts set forth herein.
I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance
No. 23-0110-320 of the City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois adopted and
approved on the 10th day of January, 2023.
                                              /s/
                                             City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Fairfield shall be designated as
the code of Fairfield and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Fairfield,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Fairfield.
   COUNTY. Wayne County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Wayne County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Fairfield.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Fairfield. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include persons in the employ of
a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of any officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to those technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this city
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not more
than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
38.   WARDS
      
39.   CITY POLICIES
      
40.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Pecuniary interest in contracts; prohibitions
   
30.02   Misconduct of municipal officers
   
30.03   Bonds of city officers; custody
   
30.04   Appointive offices discontinued; exception
   
30.05   Municipal officers; taking office
   
30.06   Utility service payment arrangements
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 PECUNIARY INTEREST IN CONTRACTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in
his or her own name or in the name of any other person, association, trust or
corporation, in any contract, work or business of the municipality, or in the
sale of any article, whenever the expense, price or consideration of the
contract, work, business or sale is paid either from the treasury or by any
assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. No municipal officer shall be
interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue or legal process at the suit of the municipality.
   (B)   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body may
provide materials, merchandise, property, services or labor, if:
      (1)   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association in which the interested member of the
governing body of the municipality has less than a 7.5% share in the ownership;
      (2)   The interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of
his or her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed
award of the contract;
      (3)   The interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum;
      (4)   The contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office;
      (5)   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest responsible
bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds $1,500, but the contract may be
awarded without bidding if the amount is less than $1,500; and
      (6)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to exceed
$25,000.
   (C)   In addition to the above exemption, any elected or appointed member of
the governing body may provide materials, merchandise, property, service or
labor if:
      (1)   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality provided that any interested member shall
abstain from voting;
      (2)   The amount of the contract does not exceed $250;
      (3)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to exceed $500;
      (4)   The interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of
his or her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed
award of the contract; and
      (5)   The interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (D)   A contract for the procurement of public utility services by a
municipality with a public utility company is not barred by this section by one
or more members of the governing body being an officer or employee of the
public utility company or holding an ownership interest of no more than 7.5% in
the public utility company. An elected or appointed member of the governing
body having that interest shall be deemed not to have a prohibited interest
under this section.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude a contract of deposit
of moneys, loans or other financial services by a municipality with a local
bank or local savings and loan association, regardless of whether a member or
members of the governing body of the municipality are interested in the bank or
savings and loan association as an officer or employee or as a holder of less
than 5% of the total ownership interest. A member or members holding a
pecuniary interest in a contract shall not be deemed to be holding a prohibited
interest for purposes of this section. The interested member or members of the
governing body must publicly state the nature and extent of their pecuniary
interest during deliberations concerning the proposed award of a contract, but
shall not participate in any further deliberations concerning the proposed
award. The interested member or members shall not vote on a proposed award. Any
member or members abstaining from participation in deliberations and voting
under this section may be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum. Consideration and award of any contract in which a member or members
are interested may only be made at a regularly scheduled public meeting of the
governing body of the municipality.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.010) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.02 MISCONDUCT OF MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   Every municipal officer who is guilty of a palpable omission of duty, or who
is guilty of willful and corrupt oppression, malconduct or misfeasance in the
discharge of the duties of his or her office, shall be guilty of a business
offense and, on conviction, shall be fined. The court in which the conviction
is had shall enter an order removing the convicted officer from office.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.020) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.03 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS; CUSTODY.
   The bonds of the city officers provided for in
Chapter 32, except the bond of the City Clerk, shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and the bond of the City Clerk shall be filed with the City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.030)
§ 30.04 APPOINTIVE OFFICES DISCONTINUED; EXCEPTION.
   All appointive offices of the city, except City Collector and City
Treasurer, are hereby discontinued. All persons rendering services to the city,
except the elected officers required by statute and the appointive office above
named, shall be employees of the city and not officers.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.040)
§ 30.05 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; TAKING OFFICE.
   The Mayor, City Clerk, and all City Aldermen shall all be sworn in and take
office and thereafter act in their official capacity as the city municipal
officers during the first regular scheduled Council meeting of the City Council
held in the month of May succeeding the election of municipal officers in the
month of April.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.050) (Ord. 1256, passed - -1985)
§ 30.06 UTILITY SERVICE PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   All city utility bills shall be paid in full to avoid termination of
service under this section. However, the City Collector shall allow a city
utility customer who has a delinquent utility service balance to defer payment
of all or a portion of his, her or its delinquent utility service account
balance by payment of monthly installments over a deferred payment period not
to exceed four months.
   (B)   The city utility service customers who are eligible for deferred
payment arrangements shall be those city utility service customers who have a
delinquent utility service account balance, who have no other delinquent
account balances owing to the city, and who have signed no previous deferred
agreement within the past 12 months which provides for the deferral of a
delinquent city utility service account balance.
   (C)   To pay a city utility service delinquent account balance by a deferred
payment arrangement, a city utility service customer, shall:
      (1)   Apply to the City Collector or the deferral of the city utility
service customer’s delinquent utility service account balance and sign a
deferred payment agreement with the City Collector in a form approved by the
City Council;
      (2)   Pay one-fourth of the delinquent utility service account balance to
the City Collector along with the delivery of the signed deferred payment
agreement;
      (3)   Pay a late payment penalty, along with each deferred monthly
payment made pursuant to the deferred payment agreement;
      (4)   Pay all city utility service bills during the deferred payment
period in full when due;
      (5)   Pay each deferred utility service installment and late payment
penalty on or before the fifteenth day of each month during the deferred
payment period; and
      (6)   Comply with all terms and conditions of the deferred payment
agreement.
   (D)   Failure of a city utility service customer who is a party to a
deferred payment agreement to comply with the terms and conditions of the
deferred payment agreement or the provisions of this section shall constitute a
breach of the deferred payment agreement, and the City Collector shall
institute proceedings pursuant to this chapter for the termination of city
utility services and collection of utility service account.
   (E)   The City Collector is authorized to sign and deliver the deferred
payment agreement provided in this section on behalf of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.060) (Ord. 1381, passed - -1992; Ord. 22-0412-282, passed 4-
12-2022)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any officer who violates §
30.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and in addition thereto any office held by
that person so convicted shall become vacant and shall be so declared as part
of the judgment of the court.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.010)
   (C)   Any officer who violates §
30.02 shall be fined not exceeding $1,000.
(1986 Code, § 2.02.020)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Election functions
   
31.02   Meetings
   
31.03   Special meetings
   
31.04   Presiding officer
   
31.05   Quorum
   
31.06   Standing committees
   
31.07   Special committees
   
31.08   Membership in committees
   
31.09   Records
   
31.10   Disturbing meetings
   
31.11   Order of business
   
31.12   Rescinded action
   
31.13   Resolutions
   
31.14   Rules of public participation
   
31.15   Suspension of rules
   
31.16   Rules of order
   
31.17   Appropriations and payment of debts and expenses for corporate purposes
   
31.18   Salary
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 ELECTION FUNCTIONS.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The Council shall be the legislative division of the city government and
shall perform those duties and have those powers as may be authorized by
statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.010)
§ 31.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second
and fourth Tuesday of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m.; provided that if the
regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the
next secular day at the same hour.
   (B)   Adjourned meetings may be held at times as the City Council may
determine.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.020) (Ord. 1627, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 31.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or three
Aldermen; provided that a written notice of the meeting shall be given to each
member of the City Council at least 24 hours before the time set for the
meeting; provided further that in case all of the elected members of the City
Council are present at any special meeting, then the requirement of notice
shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.030)
§ 31.04 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the City Council at all regular
or special meetings and when the City Council meets as a committee as a whole.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.040)
§ 31.05 QUORUM.
   A majority of the elected members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum thereof, but no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall
be passed except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected members
as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.050)
§ 31.06 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The following shall be the standing committees of the City Council:
   (A)   Collection and Legislative;
   (B)   Finance;
   (C)   Insurance;
   (D)   Street Department;
   (E)   Sanitation and Board of Health;
   (F)   Airport and Civil Defense;
   (G)   Cemetery and Garage;
   (H)   Police and Fire;
   (I)   Gas;
   (J)   Water and Sewer;
   (K)   Electric; and
   (L)   Industrial.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.060)
§ 31.07 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint those special committees as he or she may deem
necessary or as may be directed by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.070)
§ 31.08 MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the members of all standing and special
committees, in the absence of specific direction by the City Council, and shall
designate the Chairperson of each committee.
   (B)   Every committee of the City Council shall consist of three members;
including the Chairperson; except the Industrial Committee shall consist of
five members, including the Chairperson, all unless the City Council shall
provide otherwise.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.080)
§ 31.09 RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the City Council
proceedings.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.090)
§ 31.10 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the City Council or of any
committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any meeting.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.100) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.11 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at meetings of the City Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Pledge of Allegiance;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Approval of minutes;
   (D)   Approval of bills;
   (E)   Public comments;
   (F)   Routine business;
   (G)   Miscellaneous; and
   (H)   Adjournment.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.110)
§ 31.12 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote of action of the City Council shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there be present at the special meeting as many members of the
City Council as were present at the meeting when the vote or action was taken,
as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.120)
§ 31.13 RESOLUTIONS.
   Any resolutions submitted to the City Council shall be reduced to writing
before being voted upon, at the request of any two members of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.130)
§ 31.14 RULES OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   In order to secure the rights of the citizens of the city to fair and just
representation before their elected officials, and to guarantee order at public
meetings of the corporate authorities of the city, the following rules are
established.
   (A)   Any person who seeks to address the corporate authorities of the city,
at the time allotted during the public meeting for public comments and
questions, shall be permitted to speak only upon recognition by the presiding
officer, and the person shall adhere to the following provisions.
      (1)   Each person addressing the corporate authorities of the city shall
state his or her name and address for the record, at the beginning of the
address.
      (2)   Each person shall be granted no more than three minutes per meeting
in order to address the corporate authorities of the city, unless the time is
extended by the presiding officer, giving consideration to the probable number
of speakers and lateness of the hour.
      (3)   Questions and/or comments shall be limited to city business.
Comments supporting or opposing a nominated person’s candidacy for elective
office shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Comments shall be directed to the presiding officer, unless the
presiding officer permits the individual to address the Council members of the
city or other city officials or employees present.
      (5)   The following behavior is prohibited during a public meeting of the
corporate authorities of the city:
         (a)   Conduct in violation of any city ordinance, state or federal
law, or any rule or regulation implementing state or federal law;
         (b)   Interruptions of speakers; name calling; boisterous remarks;
         (c)   Offensive use of abusive, obscene, profane, slanderous or
threatening language or gestures;
         (d)   Acting or behaving in an unreasonable manner so as to alarm or
disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace; and
         (e)   Any other act designed to intimidate, threaten or harm persons,
or damage or destroy property.
   (B)   Members of the public shall not engage in audible conversation which
prohibits individuals from hearing and/or participating in a public meeting, or
disrupts the conduct of business by the corporate authorities of the city.
   (C)   Members of the public may enter and leave the meeting room at any
time, provided the entrance or exit is made quietly and in an orderly fashion.
   (D)   Battery operated recording equipment is permitted at public meetings,
provided the operation thereof is silent.
   (E)   The presiding officer at each public meeting of the corporate
authorities of the city shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this section, and shall be empowered to reprimand and/or cause
the removal of any and all persons violating the provisions of this section.
The removal of an offender from a public meeting shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall twice give the offender notice that he
or she is violating certain terms of this section and might be removed from the
public meeting.
      (2)   If the offender continues to violate any of the provisions of this
section after receiving the above notice, the presiding officer shall order a
police officer to remove the offender from the meeting room. If the offender
continues the disturbance outside the meeting room, so that the orderly conduct
of business by the corporate authorities of the city is disrupted, the offender
shall be removed from City Hall.
      (3)   The offender has no right to appeal from an order of the presiding
officer requiring the removal of the offender from the meeting room or City
Hall; however, this order may be appealed by a member of the City Council
present at the meeting. Any ruling by the presiding officer may be overruled by
a majority of the members of the City Council present at the public meeting.
      (4)   The offender removed from the meeting room or City Hall shall be
criminally charged for any violations of applicable law.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.140) (Ord. 11-0125-20, passed 1-25-2011; Ord. 20-0512-211,
passed 5-12-2020) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.15 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.150)
§ 31.16 RULES OF ORDER.
   Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, Robert’s Rules of
Order shall govern the deliberations of the City Council so far as practicable.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.160)
§ 31.17 APPROPRIATIONS AND PAYMENT OF DEBTS AND EXPENSES FOR CORPORATE
PURPOSES.
   The corporate authorities may appropriate money for corporate purposes only
and provide for payment of debts and expenses of the corporation.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.170)
§ 31.18 SALARY.
   (A)   The salaries of Aldermen are fixed at an annual rate of $3,000
effective at the commencement of the terms of office beginning May 1, 2001.
Beginning May 1, 2009, the salary of the Aldermen for the city shall be
increased by 4% annually with the increase being effective May 1, 2009, but
terminating May 1, 2023 for Aldermen who took office prior to May 1, 2021. For
Aldermen who are elected at the April 6, 2021 election and who subsequently
take office in May 2021, they shall also receive the 4% annual increase in
salary until May 1, 2023. Effective May 1, 2023, the 4% annual increase in
compensation shall terminate for Aldermen.
   (B)   (1)   The payment of the annual Aldermanic salaries shall be divided
into 24 units associated with the 24 meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   Aldermen will receive one-twenty-fourth of the annual Aldermanic
salary for attendance at each of the 24 meetings of the City Council.
      (3)   Aldermen will not receive payment of one-twenty-fourth of the
Aldermanic salary for each City Council meeting missed by an Alderman unless
the absence is occasioned by illness of the Alderman, illness of the Alderman’s
spouse, children, or immediate family, or because of death of an Alderman’s
spouse, children, or immediate family.
(1986 Code, § 2.06.180) (Ord. 457, passed 4-25-1939; Ord. 1470, passed - -1996;
Ord. 1537, passed - - 2000; Ord. 08-1014-07, passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 12-1009-
42, passed 10-9-2012; Ord. 20-0922-225, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Employees Generally
   
32.001   Residence of employees, other than employees of the City Fire and
Police Departments
   
32.002   Residence of Fire and Police Department employees
   
32.003   Term of officers
   
32.004   Term of employees
   
32.005   Moneys received
   
32.006   Oath
Mayor
   
32.020   Election
   
32.021   Duties
   
32.022   Appointment of officers
   
32.023   Designation of officers’ duties
   
32.024   Mayor Pro Tem
   
32.025   Acting Mayor
   
32.026   Formal occasions
   
32.027   Bond
   
32.028   Salary of Mayor
   
32.029   Appointment of employees
   
32.030   Assignment of employees’ duties
   
32.031   Compensating appointed officials and employees
City Clerk
   
32.045   Election
   
32.046   Bond
   
32.047   Signatures
   
32.048   Money collected
   
32.049   Accounts
   
32.050   Records
   
32.051   Seal
   
32.052   Documents
   
32.053   Indices
   
32.054   Ex officio Collector
   
32.055   Additional duties
   
32.056   Vacancy
   
32.057   Salary of the City Clerk
   
32.058   Deputy Clerk
   
32.059   Assistants
   
32.060   Vital Records Local Registrar duties and fees
   
32.061   Freedom of Information Act
City Treasurer
   
32.075   Appointed position
   
32.076   Bond
   
32.077   Duties
   
32.078   Deposit of funds
   
32.079   Records
   
32.080   Accounts
   
32.081   Reports
   
32.082   Register of warrants
   
32.083   Salary
   
32.084   Bond of Treasurer of Cemetery Board of Managers
City Administrator
   
32.095   Creation of office
   
32.096   Appointment of City Administrator
   
32.097   Resignation or removal from office
   
32.098   Bond and oath
   
32.099   Powers and duties of the City Administrator
City Attorney
   
32.110   Office abolished
   
32.111   Employed
City Collector
   
32.125   Creation of office
   
32.126   Appointment
   
32.127   Bond
   
32.128   Qualification
   
32.129   Duties
   
32.130   Termination of office
   
32.131   Unlawful retention of money collected
   
32.132   Reports
   
32.133   Salary
   
32.134   Assistants
EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
§ 32.001 RESIDENCE OF EMPLOYEES, OTHER THAN EMPLOYEES OF THE CITY FIRE AND
POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
   Employees shall maintain their residence within the following boundaries:
1500N and (everything south would be in), 200N and (everything north would be
in), 2500E and (everything west would be in), CH9 and (everything east would be
in).
(1986 Code, § 2.08.015) (Ord. 1312, passed - -1988; Ord. 1424, passed - -1994;
Ord. 12-0410-35, passed 4-10-2012; Ord. 20-0728-220, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 32.002 RESIDENCE OF FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   Employees shall maintain their residence within the following boundaries:
1500N and (everything south would be in), 200N and (everything north would be
in), 2500E and (everything west would be in), CH9 and (everything east would be
in). Dispatchers hired prior to September 1, 1991, will not be subject to the
residential requirements of this section.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.016) (Ord. 1424, passed - -1994; Ord. 20-0728-220, passed 7-
28-2020)
§ 32.003 TERM OF OFFICERS.
   Every appointed officer shall hold office for a term that shall coincide
with the term of office of the Mayor who appointed them, but shall not exceed
the term of the said Mayor and shall continue in their office until their
successor is appointed and qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.120) (Ord. 23-0613-332, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 32.004 TERM OF EMPLOYEES.
    Employees shall serve as long as their services are deemed necessary by the
Mayor.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.130)
§ 32.005 MONEYS RECEIVED.
   Every elected or appointed officer or employee of the city shall at least
once each day turn over all moneys upon receipt in his or her official city
capacity to the City Treasurer with a statement showing the source from which
the same was received.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.140) (Ord. 1424, passed - -1994)
§ 32.006 OATH.
   Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
take the oath prescribed by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.150)
MAYOR
§ 32.020 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.010)
§ 32.021 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, shall preside
over the meetings of the Council, and shall perform those duties as may be
required of him or her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall have
supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the city and
shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records pertaining
to city affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the city at any
reasonable time.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.020)
§ 32.022 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.030)
§ 32.023 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor after
consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.040)
§ 32.024 MAYOR PRO TEM.
    During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the City Council
shall elect one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem, who during the absence
or disability shall possess the powers of the Mayor, as is provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.050)
§ 32.025 ACTING MAYOR.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Council may appoint
one of its members as acting Mayor to serve until the vacancy is filled at a
regular or special election as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.060)
§ 32.026 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions; but in his or her absence or inability to attend any function, the
Council may select any other city officer to so act.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.070)
§ 32.027 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Mayor shall
execute a bond in the amount of $100,000, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his or her office.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.080)
§ 32.028 SALARY OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor is fixed as follows: beginning May 1,
2021, the salary of the Mayor shall be $50,000 per year and the Mayor shall
receive an annual stipend of $1,200 for his/her work as the local Liquor
Control Commission. The Mayor shall receive a monetary bonus, in an amount as
determined by the City Council, at the same time as unelected employees of the
city receive a monetary bonus.
   (B)   The position of Mayor shall be a full-time position. The Mayor shall
devote the time necessary to carry out the functions of his or her position.
   (C)   The cost of the group health insurance for the Mayor shall be the same
as for the employees of the city who do not have an elected position.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.090) (Ord. 1254, passed - -1985; Ord. 1314, passed - -1988;
Ord. 1335, passed - - 1989; Ord. 1391, passed - -1992; Ord. 1470, passed - -
1996; Ord. 1539, passed - -2000; Ord. 1611, passed 10-26-2004; Ord. 08-1014-07,
passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 20-0922-225, passed 9-22-2020; Ord. 20-1013-227, passed
10-13-2020)
§ 32.029 APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall designate or hire all employees of the city whose
designation or hiring is not otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in
an appointive position shall be filled in the same manner.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.100)
§ 32.030 ASSIGNMENT OF EMPLOYEES’ DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall have the power to assign to any employee any duties he or
she sees fit. Where the duties of a position are not provided for by law, the
Mayor may designate those duties with the advice and consent of the Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.08.110)
§ 32.031 COMPENSATING APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall not increase the salary and/or compensation of an employee
without the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 21-0223-246, passed 2-23-2021)
CITY CLERK
§ 32.045 ELECTION.
   The City Clerk shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until
his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.010)
§ 32.046 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City Clerk shall
execute a bond in the amount of $100,000, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his or her office.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.020)
§ 32.047 SIGNATURES.
   The City Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the city and all
licenses, permits and other documents as shall require this formality.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.030)
§ 32.048 MONEY COLLECTED.
   The City Clerk shall turn over all money received by him or her on behalf of
the city to the City Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same; and with the
money he or she shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.040)
§ 32.049 ACCOUNTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by him or her
and the source and disposition thereof, and other accounts as may be required
by statute or ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.050)
§ 32.050 RECORDS.
   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the City
Clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued and the payments thereon; a record showing all of
the officers and regular employees of the city; and other records as may be
required by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.060)
§ 32.051 SEAL.
   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal, and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.070)
§ 32.052 DOCUMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the city
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.080)
§ 32.053 INDICES.
   The City Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be
had.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.090)
§ 32.054 EX OFFICIO COLLECTOR.
   The City Clerk shall act as and perform all the duties of Collector unless
and until a separate Collector is appointed.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.100)
§ 32.055 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties herein provided, the City Clerk shall perform
other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.110)
§ 32.056 VACANCY.
   In case the office of City Clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the
Mayor and Council shall appoint a successor as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.120)
§ 32.057 SALARY OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The annual salary of the City Clerk is fixed as follows: beginning May
1, 2009, the salary of the City Clerk shall be $38,353 per year and the salary
shall be increased by 4% for three years beginning on May 1, 2010, May 1, 2011
and May 1, 2012.Thereafter, the salary of the City Clerk shall be raised the
same as the salaries of other unelected employees of the city are raised at
times when the salaries are raised.
   (B)   The position of City Clerk shall be considered a full-time position
who shall devote the time necessary to carry out the functions of the City
Clerk’s position.
   (C)   The cost of the group health insurance for the City Clerk shall be the
same as for the employees of the city who do not have an elected position.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall receive an annual stipend of $2,400 for being the
Clerk of the Municipal Court and/or other assigned duties. The City Clerk shall
receive a bonus, in an amount as determined by the City Council, at the same
time as unelected employees of the city receive a monetary bonus.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.130) (Ord. 1254, passed - -1985; Ord. 1335, passed - -1989;
Ord. 1391, passed - - 1992; Ord. 1471, passed - -1996; Ord. 1540, passed - -
2000; Ord. 08-1014-07, passed 10-14-2008; Ord. 12-1009-43, passed 10-9-2012;
Ord. 20-0922-225, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 32.058 DEPUTY CLERK.
   The Deputy Clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the City Clerk, and affix the seal of the
City Clerk thereto wherever required. In signing any document, the Deputy Clerk
shall sign his or her own name, followed by the words “Deputy Clerk.”
(1986 Code, § 2.10.140) (Ord. 602, passed 6-17-1947; Ord. 1179, passed - -1981)
§ 32.059 ASSISTANTS.
   The City Clerk is authorized to select assistants as he or she deems
necessary to the proper discharge of the duties of his or her office, subject
to the approval of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.150)
§ 32.060 VITAL RECORDS LOCAL REGISTRAR DUTIES AND FEES.
   The City Clerk, or other public officer of the city, may from time to time
act as Vital Records Local Registrar or Subregistrar by appointment from the
State Registrar of Vital Records and, if so appointed, shall perform those
powers and duties of Vital Records Local Registrar or Subregistrar during
regular business hours of the city as may be provided by the State Vital
Records Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 535, §§ 1 et seq. All fees received by the City
Clerk, or other public officer of the city, for services performed in the
capacity of Vital Records Local Registrar or Subregistrar shall be transmitted
directly to the City Treasurer for deposit in the corporate accounts of the
city and used for its general corporate purposes.
(1986 Code, § 2.10.160) (Ord. 1487, passed - -1997)
Statutory reference:
   Vital records fees, see ILCS Ch. 410, Act 535, § 25
§ 32.061 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the FOIA Officer to whom all
initial requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the office of the City Clerk at 109 NE 2nd Street,
Fairfield, Illinois, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday. In the event that the City Clerk is not available during the
times described above, the Deputy Clerk is designated as the Deputy FOIA
Officer to whom such initial requests are to be made. The Chief of Police is
hereby designated as the FOIA Officer to whom all initial requests for access
to the records of the Police Department are to be referred. Such requests are
to be made at the office of the Chief of Police at 1102 Leininger Rd.,
Fairfield, Illinois.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the city receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   The FOIA Officer and Deputy FOIA Officer shall, successfully complete
an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the Public Access
Counselor of the state and thereafter successfully complete an annual training
program. Whenever a new Freedom of Information Officer is designated by the
city, that person shall successfully complete the electronic training
curriculum within 30 days after assuming the position.
   (D)   Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of
Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the
FOIA Officer, or by an employee of the city acting under the direction of the
FOIA Officer. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed by the city.
   (E)   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA Officer
pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Freedom of Information Act. The City Clerk
shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in the Clerk’s office. The
fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the
cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested.
   (F)   In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the
FOIA Officer, the denial may be appealed to the Public Access Counselor of the
state.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall prepare:
      (1)   A city information directory;
      (2)   A block diagram of the functional subdivisions of the city;
      (3)   A city records directory; and
      (4)   A records catalogue, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached to Ordinance 12-0124-32 and made a part
hereof as Exhibits A, B, C, and D.
(Ord. 12-0124-32, passed 1-24-2012; Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CITY TREASURER
§ 32.075 APPOINTED POSITION.
   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice
and consent of the City Council, and shall serve for the term not to exceed
that of the Mayor and until his or her successor shall have been appointed and
have qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.010) (Ord. 1390, passed - -1992)
§ 32.076 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City Treasurer
shall execute a bond in a sum as may be required by the City Council, but the
bond shall not be less than three times the latest federal census population or
any subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes, and not less
than the amount of money in the city treasury, in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 3.1-10-30, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office, and not less than $500,000.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.020)
§ 32.077 DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall perform those duties as may be prescribed for him or her
by statute or ordinance. He or she shall receive all money paid to the city,
either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of any other
officer who may receive it, and he or she shall pay out only on vouchers or
orders properly signed by the City Clerk and the Mayor.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.030)
§ 32.078 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   He or she shall deposit the city funds in depositories as may be selected
from time to time as is provided by statute, and he or she shall keep the city
money separate and distinct from his or her own, and shall not intermingle his
or her own money with it or make private or personal use of city funds.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.040)
§ 32.079 RECORDS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep those records showing all money received by
him or her, the source from which it was received, and the purpose for which it
was paid out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the
financial status of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.050)
§ 32.080 ACCOUNTS.
   The Treasurer shall keep books and accounts as may be required by the City
Council, and shall keep them in the manner required by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.060)
§ 32.081 REPORTS.
   The City Treasurer shall make semi-monthly reports to the Council showing
the state of the finances of the city, and the amounts received and spent
during those semi-monthly periods, which reports shall be filed. He or she
shall make an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the total
amount of all receipts and expenditures of the city and his or her transactions
during the preceding year.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.070)
§ 32.082 REGISTER OF WARRANTS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders
filed with him or her or paid by him or her, and all vouchers, as is required
by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.080)
§ 32.083 SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of the City Treasurer is fixed as follows: beginning May 1,
1989, $19,867.72.
   (B)   The position of City Treasurer shall be considered a full-time
position and he or she shall devote the time necessary to carry out the
functions of his or her position.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.090) (Ord. 1254, passed - -1985; Ord. 1335, passed - -1989)
§ 32.084 BOND OF TREASURER OF CEMETERY BOARD OF MANAGERS.
   Before entering upon the duties of the Office of Treasurer of Cemetery Board
of Managers, the City Treasurer shall execute a bond in the amount of $25,000
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(1986 Code, § 2.12.100)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 32.095 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is created the Office of the City Administrator, an administrative
office of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.16.010) (Ord. 1341, passed - -1989)
§ 32.096 APPOINTMENT OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council,
shall appoint a City Administrator. Upon recommendation of the Mayor, the City
Council shall have the City Administrator for either an indefinite or a fixed
term and shall fix his or her compensation. The City Administrator shall be
appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative
qualifications, education and training, with special reference to his or her
actual experience in or his or her knowledge of the duties of the Office of
City Administrator.
   (B)   Residence within the city at the time of employment is not necessary,
but the City Administrator shall promptly within six months become a resident
and thereafter reside within the city while in office.
   (C)   No Alderman or Mayor shall receive this appointment during the term
for which he or she shall have been elected nor within one year after the
expiration of that term.
(1986 Code, § 2.16.020) (Ord. 1341, passed - -1989)
§ 32.097 RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The City Administrator may resign from his or her office at any time
subject to any contractual arrangements he or she may have with the city.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the concurrence of the City Council, may remove the
City Administrator from office.
(1986 Code, § 2.16.030) (Ord. 1341, passed - -1989)
§ 32.098 BOND AND OATH.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City
Administrator shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the City Council,
the bond to be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties.
The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City
Administrator shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the statutes of
the state in that case made and provided.
(1986 Code, § 2.16.040) (Ord. 1341, passed - -1989)
§ 32.099 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and to the City
Council for the administration of all city affairs placed in his or her charge
by or under this subchapter and shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall prepare the official agenda of the City
Council, attend all City Council meetings and shall have the right to take part
in discussion but may not vote.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall see that all laws and provisions of
ordinances of the City Council are faithfully executed.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
capital program to the City Council.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall submit to the City Council and make
available to the public a complete report of the finances and administrative
activity to the city, as of the end of each fiscal year.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall make other reports as the City Council
may require concerning the operation of city departments, offices and agencies.
   (F)   The City Administrator shall keep the City Council fully advised of
the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make recommendations
to the City Council concerning the affairs of the city as deemed desirable.
   (G)   On or before May 15 in each year and before the annual appropriation
ordinance is prepared by the corporate authorities, the City Administrator
shall submit to the Mayor and the City Council a report of his or her estimate
as nearly as may be of the money necessary to defray the expenses of the city
during the next fiscal year, and in the report, he or she shall classify and
detail the purposes of expenditure, the aggregate income of the preceding year,
the city liabilities and other information as is necessary to assist the Mayor
and the City Council to adopt an appropriation ordinance. For the purpose of
preparing the aforesaid estimate, the City Administrator is authorized to
require all officers to submit statements of the condition and expenses of
their respective offices or departments, description of proposed city
improvements, and the probable expense thereof, a description of all
unperformed contracts and a statement of the amount of all unexpired
appropriations of the preceding year.
   (H)   The City Administrator, with the approval of the Finance Committee of
the City Council, shall recommend to the Mayor and the City Council the
salaries to be paid to each appointive subordinate employee of the city.
   (I)   The City Administrator shall oversee all purchases of materials,
supplies and equipment subject to and pursuant to directives and appropriations
made and provided by the Mayor and City Council, and subject also to the
statutes of the state pertaining to the expenditures or appropriations of the
city. However, all expenditures and payments, regardless of amount, shall be
subject to the confirmation and approval of the adoption of a budget or special
appropriation.
   (J)   The City Administrator shall make investigations into the affairs of
the city or any department or division thereof and shall investigate all
complaints in relation to matters concerning city services and city
administration.
   (K)   The City Administrator shall devote his or her entire time to the
discharge of the official duties of his or her office.
   (L)   The City Administrator shall actively pursue and solicit grants and
other outside funding sources for the city and shall maintain intergovernmental
relations with other governmental agencies.
   (M)   The City Administrator shall prepare “long-term” planning for
presentation to Council.
   (N)   The City Administrator shall monitor and assist leadmen to see that
all departments are efficiently operating.
   (O)   The City Administrator shall report quarterly on projects, personnel
and planning.
   (P)   The City Administrator shall coordinate with the Zoning Officer.
   (Q)   The City Administrator shall have complete knowledge of the union
contract and enforce its provisions.
   (R)   The City Administrator shall participate in committee meetings.
   (S)   The City Administrator shall attend seminars and meetings for various
departments as recommended by the Mayor and Council.
   (T)   The City Administrator shall perform other duties as are specified in
any ordinance of the city as may be required by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.16.050) (Ord. 1341, passed - -1989)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 32.110 OFFICE ABOLISHED.
   The Office of City Attorney be and the same is hereby abolished.
(1986 Code, § 2.38.010) (Ord. 764, passed 4-19-1960)
§ 32.111 EMPLOYED.
   Hereafter the City Attorney shall be employed or retained by the city at a
compensation as the City Council may fix from time to time.
(1986 Code, § 2.38.020) (Ord. 764, passed 4-19-1960)
CITY COLLECTOR
§ 32.125 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Collector, an executive office of
the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.010)
§ 32.126 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Collector shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, for a term that shall coincide with the term of
office of the Mayor who appointed them but shall not exceed the term of the
said Mayor and shall continue in their office until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.020) (Ord. 23-0613-332, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 32.127 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City Collector
shall execute a bond in the amount of $500,000, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his or her office.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.030)
§ 32.128 QUALIFICATION.
   The City Collector shall be a qualified elector of the city and shall have
resided in the city for at least one year next preceding his or her appointment
and shall not be a defaulter to the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.040)
§ 32.129 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Collector to collect and receive all
money due on special assessments and special taxes that are not paid directly
to the City Treasurer, and to keep records pertaining to the collections as may
be required by statute or ordinance.
   (B)   The City Collector shall collect all accounts, bills, orders and sums
of money due the city from any and all persons, firms and corporations. He or
she shall keep all warrants which are returned to him or her and shall keep
accounts of all money collected by him or her. He or she shall turn over all
money received by him or her on behalf of the city to the City Treasurer
weekly; and with the money he or she shall give a statement as to the source
thereof; and he or she shall take a receipt therefor from the Treasurer. He or
she shall prepare the receipts and the receipts shall be filed with the City
Collector, City Treasurer and City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.050) (Ord. 20-1124-239, passed 11-24-2020)
§ 32.130 TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   The City Collector, upon the expiration of his or her term for any cause
whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and records and
moneys which may be the property of the city; and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, the property shall
be delivered either to the City Clerk or to the City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.060)
§ 32.131 UNLAWFUL RETENTION OF MONEY COLLECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the City Collector to keep money received by him or
her on behalf of the city for longer than one week. Any City Collector
violating this section shall be immediately removed from his or her office by
the Mayor and shall be liable for unlawful retention of money collected.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.070)
§ 32.132 REPORTS.
   The City Collector shall make reports regarding delinquent special
assessments and special taxes as are required by statute, and shall make
reports to the City Council, showing what money has been received and the
source thereof and the activities of his or her office, as the City Council may
provide.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.080)
§ 32.133 SALARY.
   The salary of the City Collector shall be fixed by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.090)
§ 32.134 ASSISTANTS.
   The City Collector is authorized to select those assistants as he or she
shall deem necessary to the proper discharge of the duties of his or her
office, subject to the approval of the City Council. Before entering upon the
duties of their positions, these assistants shall execute a bond in the amount
of $500,000, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their
positions.
(1986 Code, § 2.40.100)
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Fairfield Economic Development Committee
   
33.001   Committee established
   
33.002   Membership; terms
   
33.003   Powers and duties
   
33.004   Funds to be appropriated and approved by Mayor and City Council
   
33.005   Membership
   
33.006   Meetings
   
33.007   Records
   
33.008   Development Fund
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
33.025   Creation
   
33.026   Term of office
   
33.027   Appointment
   
33.028   Qualifications and bond
   
33.029   Removal from office
   
33.030   Powers and duties
   
33.031   Secretary
   
33.032   Compensation
   
33.033   Residency
Board of Trustees of the Policemen’s Pension Fund
   
33.045   Creation
   
33.046   Appointment
   
33.047   Powers and duties
Liquor Commission
   
33.090   Creation and appointment
   
33.091   Term of office
   
33.092   Powers and duties
   
33.093   Salary
Board of Health
   
33.105   Appointment
   
33.106   General duties
   
33.107   Quarantine; vaccination
   
33.108   Orders; notices
Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.120   Purpose
   
33.121   Composition of Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.122   Qualifications
   
33.123   Terms
   
33.124   Officers
   
33.125   Meetings
   
33.126   Powers and duties
   
33.127   Surveys and research
Business District Committee
   
33.140   Findings
   
33.141   Establishment
   
33.142   Powers
   
33.143   Improvement projects eligible for expenditures
   
33.144   Grants
 
   
33.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Appeals, see §§
154.160 through
154.166
FAIRFIELD AREA DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.001 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Purpose. There is hereby established the Fairfield Economic
Development Committee (hereinafter "FEDC"). The purpose of the FEDC is to
promote sound economic development programs by conducting research,
inventorying of resources and preparation of industrial, commercial, retail and
business profiles to be used as presentations to prospective persons,
partnerships, corporations or other legal entities who are considering
expansion or location in Fairfield. The FEDC shall make its findings and
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council in the manner prescribed herein.
   (B)   Advisory body. The FEDC is an advisory board only and will make no
statement, claim, contract or pledges, either orally or in writing, that would
in any way bind the city, its agents, employees, contractors, aldermen, Mayor,
successors or assigns without the prior formal approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.002 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Membership. The membership of the FEDC shall be composed of nine
members, seven of whom shall be voting members, one of whom shall be appointed
chair by the Mayor. There shall be one member of the FEDC who shall be the
Economic Development Director. The Economic Development Director shall not be
entitled to vote on FEDC matters. There shall also be one member of the FEDC
who shall be on the Fairfield Industrial Committee. The Fairfield Industrial
Committee member shall not be entitled to vote on FEDC matters. The
appointments to this commission shall be made by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Terms of office.
      (1)   The terms of office for the FEDC shall be for periods of three
years. Members appointed at the onset shall be for the following terms:
         (a)   Three members for a three-year term;
         (b)   Two members for a two-year term;
         (c)   Two members for a one- year term.
      (2)   The terms of office shall commence on their appointment. For the
initial appointment at the onset, the Mayor shall designate the initial term of
each member (being either a three-year, two-year, or one-year initial
appointment). Subsequent appointments shall be for three-year terms. A vacancy
shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has become
vacant.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The FEDC shall have the following general powers, duties and functions:
   (A)   Providing recommendations to the City Council for the maintenance of
the economic health of the existing community and the promotion of industrial,
commercial, business, and retail development, as well as other supporting
services which will provide quality job opportunities, diversify and broaden
the tax base, and enhance the quality of life in Fairfield.
   (B)   Engaging in strategic economic development planning and provide
recommendations to the City Council for policy development.
   (C)   Making recommendations to the City Council on how to improve the
overall competitiveness of the community, and how to create opportunities for
future economic development.
   (D)   Developing and implementing a business retention/expansion program.
   (E)   Developing and implementing a marketing program to attract new
business and industry, and to market present business and industry.
   (F)   Monitoring business activity and trends on the local, state and
national levels, and making written recommendations to the City Council of any
findings.
   (G)   Establishing a focal point for businesses to approach and discuss
issues that affect them.
   (H)   As the FEDC deems appropriate, proposing amendments to the ordinances
to the City Council for consideration.
   (I)   Recommending to the City Council goals and methods for enhancing the
relationship between the city and its business community.
   (J)   On behalf of the City Council, cooperating with local governments,
Greater Fairfield Area Chamber of Commerce, educational institutions, and other
city and community organizations in their marketing and promotion efforts to
attract new business to the community.
   (K)   Providing an annual update to the City Council on the activities of
the FEDC.
   (L)   Providing assistance to city staff as requested to meet project goals
and deadlines, including assistance to the City Council in an advisory
capacity.
   (M)   Meeting on at least a quarterly basis.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.004 FUNDS TO BE APPROPRIATED AND APPROVED BY MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
   The FEDC is prohibited from pledging or expending municipal funds other than
those appropriated and approved by the Mayor and the City Council. The FEDC may
request from the City Council such funds as needed and handle such financial
responsibilities as outlined below:
   (A)   At least 60 days prior to May 1 of each year, the FEDC shall submit
its annual budget showing administrative and other expenses anticipated for the
following fiscal year.
   (B)   In the alternative, should the FEDC require nonbudgeted appropriations
during the fiscal year, they may come directly to the City Council for
consideration of the proposed expenditure of funds as the need may arise.
   (C)   All funds budgeted and appropriated for the FEDC shall be paid through
the City Treasurer upon properly submitted invoices.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.005 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Appointments shall be made on the basis of the individual's
willingness to serve and ability to assist in the purpose and policies of the
FEDC.
   (B)   Residency. Members shall either reside within or own or lease a
business within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   The Mayor has the discretion and power to remove any member of FEDC.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.006 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Open Meetings Act. All meetings of the FEDC shall be held in
conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   The FEDC shall meet at least four times per year and at such other
times when necessary to carry out its assigned duties.
   (C)   A quorum for a meeting shall consist of four voting members.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.007 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Economic Development Director shall serve as Secretary for the
FEDC.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep permanent records and minutes of its
meetings, showing the vote of each voting member upon each topic submitted to
it.
   (C)   The Secretary shall submit any recommendations to the Mayor and City
Council in writing, together with any findings of fact necessary to support
recommendations.
(Ord. 20-0428-208, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 33.008 DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   There is hereby created a fund to be known as the Development Fund, which
Fund shall be used for the purposes of financing economic development activity
related to die attraction, location and retention of industrial, manufacturing
and commercial employers to the City. The Fund shall consist of sums of money
as may hereafter be appropriated and provided by the City, and of all rentals,
interest, incomes, dividends, earnings and avails, from the sale, lease,
conveyance or other disposition of any property acquired pursuant to the powers
previously exercised by the Fairfield Area Development Commission or in die
future by any all activities of the City for which the Development Fund may be
used and other sums as may by law be provided for those purposes.
(Ord. 20-0114-193, passed 1-14-2020)
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.025 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners consisting
of three members as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.010) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.026 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of each of the members of the Board shall be three years and until
his or her respective successor shall be appointed and qualified; provided that
no appointment shall be made by any Mayor within 30 days before the expiration
of his or her term of office.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.020) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.027 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with
the consent of the Aldermen.
   (B)   The first members of the Board shall be appointed for terms as
follows: one of them to serve until the end of the current municipal year,
another shall serve until the end of the municipal year next ending, and the
third shall serve until the end of the municipal year second ending; provided
that each of the first members of the Board shall serve until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.030) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.028 QUALIFICATIONS AND BOND.
   The members of the Board shall have those qualifications as are now or may
hereafter be required of them by law. Each member of the Board shall take an
oath or affirmation of office and shall execute and deliver to the city a bond
in the sum of $1,000 with sureties as the Mayor and Aldermen may approve,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of that office.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.040) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.029 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the Board shall be subject to removal from office in the same
manner as other officers of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.050) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.030 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall have those powers and
duties as are now or may hereafter be given it by law, except that the Board
shall not have the power to appoint or remove the Chief of Police or the Chief
of the Fire Department.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.060) (Ord. 1345, passed - -1989)
§ 33.031 SECRETARY.
   The Board may employ a Secretary or may designate one of its own members to
act as Secretary who shall perform the duties required by law and all other
duties the Board prescribes.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.070) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.032 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation until the City
Council by ordinance fixes their compensation.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.080) (Ord. 730, passed 8-20-1957)
§ 33.033 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Persons residing outside the city are eligible to take the examination
for position in either the Fire or Police Department of the city; provided that
those persons, on notification of a pending appointment to the Fire or Police
Department of the city, shall become a resident of the city within 90 days of
the notification.
   (B)   Failure to become a resident of the city, as aforesaid shall eliminate
the person’s name from the “final eligible register” and any further
consideration.
(1986 Code, § 2.18.090) (Ord. 1070, passed 8-23-1977; Ord. 1459, passed - -
1996; Ord. 1513, passed - -1999)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICEMEN’S PENSION FUND
§ 33.045 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the Policemen’s Pension Fund
of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.20.010) (Ord. 675, passed 10-20-1953)
§ 33.046 APPOINTMENT.
   This Board shall consist of five members, residents of the city, two of whom
shall be appointed by the Mayor, two shall be elected from the regular police
force of the city by the active members thereof; and one member shall be
elected from the beneficiaries under the Police Pension Fund Act as created by
statute; the terms of the members shall be as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.20.020) (Ord. 675, passed 10-20-1953)
§ 33.047 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees of the Policemen’s Pension Fund shall have the powers
and duties delegated to it by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.20.030) (Ord. 675, passed 10-20-1953)
LIQUOR COMMISSION
§ 33.090 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The provisions of this section are covered by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, Art. IV.
(1986 Code, § 2.28.010)
§ 33.091 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The provisions of this section are covered by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, Art. IV.
(1986 Code, § 2.28.020)
§ 33.092 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any applicant or licensees; to hear
testimony and take proof of his or her information in the performance of his or
her duties, and for that purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in
any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she
may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her behalf, as provided by
statute.
(1986 Code, § 2.28.030) (Ord. 985, passed 6-12-1973)
§ 33.093 SALARY.
   The salary of the Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby fixed at $100 per
month. No salary is fixed for not exceeding two assistants to the Liquor
Control Commissioner.
(1986 Code, § 2.28.040) (Ord. 985, passed 6-12-1973)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 33.105 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Board of Health for the city. The Board of
Health shall consist of the Mayor and three members of the City Council who
shall be appointed by the Mayor for a two-year term.
(1986 Code, § 2.30.010)
§ 33.106 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Board of
Health to enforce all ordinances of the city which relate to public health or
relate to nuisances.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall make all necessary rules and regulations for
the protection of the health of the inhabitants of the city and to guard
against the spread of contagious diseases, and to prevent by necessary rules
the induction of diseases, contagious or otherwise, within the corporate limits
of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.30.020)
§ 33.107 QUARANTINE; VACCINATION.
   (A)   The Board of Health is hereby authorized to make reasonable rules as
may be necessary regarding quarantine and vaccination, for the prevention and
spread of contagious diseases, and to quarantine premises where those diseases
occur for that time as may be necessary to protect the public health.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall have the power to prevent persons from
entering or leaving premises on which a case of contagious or epidemic disease
occurs or is found, and to placard the same with signs indicating the nature of
the disease and the existence of the quarantine.
(1986 Code, § 2.30.030)
§ 33.108 ORDERS; NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order of the Board of
Health or to refuse to obey any order or to destroy, mutilate or conceal any
notice posted by or under the authority of the Board of Health.
(1986 Code, § 2.30.040) Penalty, see §
33.999
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 33.120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare
of the people of the city by:
   (A)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of the city which represents elements of the
city’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history;
   (B)   Promoting civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in the city’s landmarks and historic districts;
   (C)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of the
city’s landmarks and historic areas;
   (D)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to have
buyers, visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry and providing economic benefit to the city; and
   (E)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.010) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.121 COMPOSITION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The City Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of seven voting
members, residents of the city, appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.020) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.122 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, experience or
interest in the area of architectural history, building construction or
engineering, finance, historical and architectural preservation, neighborhood
organizing or real estate.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.030) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.123 TERMS.
   Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of three years. Of
those members first taking office, two shall be appointed for one year, three
for two years, and two for three years. No members shall serve more than two
successive three-year terms. Alternate members shall be appointed to serve in
the absence of or disqualification of the regular members. Vacancies shall be
filled for the inexperienced term only. Members shall serve without
compensation.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.040) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.124 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and a
Secretary elected by the Preservation Commission who shall serve a term of one
year and shall be eligible for re-election, but no members shall serve as an
officer for more than two consecutive years. The Chairperson shall preside over
meetings. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall perform
the duties of the Chairperson. If both are absent, a temporary Chairperson
shall be elected by those present.
   (B)   The Secretary to the Preservation Commission shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Take minutes of each Preservation Commission meeting;
      (2)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports and decisions of the Preservation Commission to the members of
the Preservation Commission;
      (3)   Give notice as provided in this subchapter or by law for all public
hearings conducted by the Preservation Commission;
      (4)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Preservation Commission and
expiring terms of members; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the city a complete record of the proceedings
before the Preservation Commission on any matter requiring Council
consideration.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.050) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.125 MEETINGS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions or
actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be made by a majority
vote of those members present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists.
Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by
resolution of the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any
time upon the call of the Chairperson. There shall be a minimum of four
meetings per year.
   (B)   No member of the Historic Preservation Commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the Commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition or demolition until the owner shall
first have had the opportunity to be heard at a public meeting of the
Preservation Commission as provided in this section. The Chairperson, and in
his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Preservation Commission shall be
open to the public. The Preservation Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote, indicating the fact, and shall keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Preservation Commission and shall be a public
record.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.060) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.126 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Historic Preservation Commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
   (B)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
   (C)   To investigate and recommend to the City Council to adopt procedures
to protect properties or structures having special historic, community or
architectural value;
   (D)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of properties or
structures which have special historic, community or architectural value;
   (E)   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse, and on procedures for
inclusion on the State or National Register of Historic Places;
   (F)   To inform and educate the citizens of the city concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city by publishing appropriate maps,
newsletters, brochures and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars;
   (G)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city, upon designation by
the City Council, those gifts, grants and money as may be appropriate for the
purpose of this subchapter;
   (H)   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts for
technical advice;
   (I)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the City
Planning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant properties; and
   (J)   To periodically review the city zoning ordinance and to recommend to
the City Planning Commission and the City Council any amendments appropriate
for the protection and continued use of historically or architecturally
significant properties.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.070) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
§ 33.127 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall undertake an ongoing survey
and research effort in the city to identify neighborhoods, areas, sites,
structures and objects that have historic, community, architectural or
aesthetic importance, interest or value. As part of the survey, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall review and evaluate any prior surveys and studies
by any unit of government or private organization and compile appropriate
descriptions, facts and photographs.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall identify significant
structures based upon the following criteria:
      (1)   Architecturally or historically significant properties in one
identifiable neighborhood or district geographical area of the city;
      (2)   Association with a particular person, event or historical period;
      (3)   Representation of a particular architectural style or school, or of
a particular architect, engineer, building designer or craftsman; and
      (4)   Other criteria as may be adopted by the Preservation Commission to
assure systematic survey of all significant properties within the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.33.080) (Ord. 1498, passed - -1998)
BUSINESS DISTRICT COMMITTEE
§ 33.140 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council has enacted an “Ordinance Establishing the Fairfield
Business District; Approving a Business District Plan; Authorizing the
Imposition and Collection Of a Sales Tax within such Business District; and
Approving Certain Actions in Connection with the Establishment of such Business
District” pursuant to the Illinois Business District Development and
Redevelopment Law (65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-1 et seq. as amended).
   (B)   The City Council of the City of Fairfield, Illinois, after being fully
advised in the premises, has determined that it would be in the best interest
of the public to set forth the procedure by which loans (hereinafter referred
to as “grants”) are made from the proceeds of the Business District Tax.
(Ord. 24-0213-358, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 33.141 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Business District Committee. The
purpose of this committee is to encourage the development, growth and expansion
of the private sector within the city by fostering a cooperative and continuous
partnership between the city and the private sector and to help develop
commercial and city redevelopment projects, financed by the proceeds collected
from the business district tax, all pursuant to the “Ordinance Establishing the
Fairfield Business District; Approving A Business District Plan; Authorizing
the Imposition and Collection of a Sales Tax within such Business District; and
Approving Certain Actions in Connection with the Establishment of such Business
District” pursuant to the Illinois Business District Development and
Redevelopment Law (65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-1 et seq. as amended).
   (B)   The Business District Committee shall be a standing committee that
will be appointed by the Mayor, and shall consist of three Aldermen, the
Building and Zoning Officer, and the Mayor as a non-voting ex officio member.
The Building and Zoning Officer shall also be a non-voting member and shall
also be the Secretary of the committee. The Building and Zoning Officer shall
be responsible for arranging meetings, preparing, and posting agendas of
committee meetings, and for keeping and preparing written meeting minutes.
   (C)   The Business District Committee is an advisory board only and will
make no statement, claim, contract or pledge, either orally or in writing, that
would in any way bind the city, its agents, employees, contractors, Aldermen,
Mayor, successors or assigns without the prior formal approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. 24-0213-358, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 33.142 POWERS.
   In carrying out development or redevelopment within the designated business
district, the Mayor and City Council shall have those powers as set forth in
the Illinois Business District Development and Redevelopment Law (65 ILCS 5/11-
74.3-1 et seq. as may be amended from time to time). In addition, the Mayor and
City Council may exercise such other powers to facilitate development and
redevelopment within the designated business district as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 24-0213-358, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 33.143 IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXPENDITURES.
   The following improvement projects are identified by the City Council, as
being eligible for expenditures from the said Business District Tax:
   (A)   New Projects (as set forth in Exhibit A, which is entitled, “City of
Fairfield New Projects Program” consisting of a brief description of the
program, along with an application and agreement, and which is attached to
Ordinance 24-0213-358, and incorporated herein by reference);
   (B)   Facade Improvement (as set forth in Exhibit B, which is entitled,
“City of Fairfield Facade Improvement Grant Program” consisting of a brief
description of the program, along with an application and agreement and which
is attached to Ordinance 24-0213-358, and incorporated herein by reference);
and
   (C)   Municipal Works (as set forth in Exhibit C, which is entitled, “City
of Fairfield Municipal Works Program” consisting of a brief description of the
program, along with an application and agreement, and which is attached to
Ordinance 24-0213-358, and incorporated herein by reference).
(Ord. 24-0213-358, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 33.144 GRANTS.
   (A)   Grants made under the New Projects program shall not exceed $10,000.
Grants made under the Facade Improvement program shall not exceed $10,000.
   (B)   To be eligible for a grant, an application and agreement must be fully
completed and contain all of the information requested therein. The application
and agreement attached to Exhibits A, B, and C are approved as to form.
   (C)   The City Council will hear recommendations from the Business District
Committee, for awards of grants and has discretion as to whether to award any
grant.
(Ord. 24-0213-358, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Department created
   
34.02   Appointments
   
34.03   Rank
   
34.04   Duties of Chief of Police
   
34.05   Duties of members
   
34.06   (Reserved)
   
34.07   Conduct of members
   
34.08   Witness fees
   
34.09   Rules and regulations
   
34.10   Stolen property; custody of
   
34.11   Terms of office
   
34.12   Bonds
   
34.13   Temporary police
   
34.14   Guaranteeing qualified immunity to police
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is created a Police Department for the city which shall consist of the
Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police, sergeants, police officers and
other members as may be provided for by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.010) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.02 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Chief of Police and the Assistant Chief of Police shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, and may or may not
be appointed from the members of the Police Department. All other appointments
to or promotions within the Police Department shall be made by the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.020) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.03 RANK.
   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Police Department and shall
have supervision over all officers and members thereof. Following him or her in
rank shall be the Assistant Police Chief, the sergeants and police officers in
order of seniority in each group.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.030) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.04 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of the Police Department as may be required by statute or by the
City Council. At the first City Council meeting of each month, the Chief of
Police shall provide a report setting forth information concerning the Police
Department’s activities for the previous calendar month. The Chief of Police
shall be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of its
functions and all persons who are members of the Police Department shall serve
subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.040) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993; Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-
12-2020)
§ 34.05 DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of the municipal code of the city and all statutes applicable
therein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.050) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.06 (RESERVED).
§ 34.07 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Every member of the Police Department shall
obey the orders and directions of his or her superior.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.070) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.08 WITNESS FEES.
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law. No member shall retain any witness fee for service as
witness in any action or suit to which the city is a party; any fees paid for
those services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit
the same with the City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.080) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe those rules and
regulations as he or she shall deem advisable; these rules and regulations
shall be binding on the members. These rules and regulations may cover, besides
the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried, hours
of service, and all other similar matters necessary or desirable for the better
efficiency of the Police Department. Any amendments to the rules and
regulations shall be presented to the City Council a the next convenient date.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.090) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993; Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-
12-2020)
§ 34.10 STOLEN PROPERTY; CUSTODY OF.
   The Chief of Police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered in the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.100) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.11 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Chief of Police and Assistant Chief of Police shall serve for a term
that shall coincide and run with the term of office of the Mayor who appointed
them, but shall not exceed the term of the Mayor and shall continue in their
office until their successors are appointed and qualified; and may be removed
in the manner provided for the removal of officers; provided that if any member
of the Police Department having a rank therein shall be appointed Chief of
Police or Assistant Chief of Police, upon the expiration of his or her term or
the termination of his or her services for any reason, he or she shall resume
his or her rank held before his or her appointment as Chief of Police or
Assistant Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.110) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993; Ord. 23-0613-332, passed 6-
13-2023)
§ 34.12 BONDS.
   The Chief of Police and Assistant Chief of Police shall each be required to
enter into a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with security to be
approved by the City Council conditioned for the faithful performance of their
duties as those officers and to keep the city harmless from all damage caused
by neglect or breach of their official duty.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.120) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.13 TEMPORARY POLICE.
   In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet extraordinary
exigencies, or to prevent material impairment of the Police Department, the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may make temporary appointments, to
remain in force until regular appointments may be made under the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 10, Div. 2.1, but never to exceed 60 days. No
temporary appointment of any one person shall be made more than twice in any
calendar year.
(1986 Code, § 2.48.130) (Ord. 1399, passed - -1993)
§ 34.14 GUARANTEEING QUALIFIED IMMUNITY TO POLICE.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes the lawful right of the city police to
qualified immunity and indemnification when they act within the scope of their
employment and are subjected to any civil cause of action brought against an
employee resulting from or arising out of the performance of their duties,
whether the employee was on or off duty at the time of the incident.
   (B)   The City Council agrees to maintain their responsibility of protecting
city police who are subjected to civil causes of action brought against them,
when the employee is acting within the scope of their employment. When the
employee qualifies for indemnification, the City Council agrees to handle it in
the following manner:
      (1)   Holding employees harmless from and pay damages or moneys which may
be adjudged, assessed, or otherwise levied against any employee. Granting
employees legal representation throughout the course of any civil cause of
action brought against them, at the cost of the City Council.
      (2)   Granting employees the ability to choose their legal counsel upon
mutual agreement with City Council.
      (3)   If necessary and feasible, the City Council will maintain liability
insurance coverage for city police employees for the purpose of
indemnification.
   (C)   If the City Council cannot reasonably maintain liability insurance
coverage on the city police, due to highly burdensome costs or insurance
companies denying coverage to law enforcement or correctional officers, the
following will be done:
      (1)   The City Council shall pay the costs of each city police officer to
belong to the Fraternal Order of Police Legal Defense Plan, civil and criminal
protection plan.
      (2)   The City Council will hold the city police harmless from and pay
damages or moneys which may be adjudged, assessed, or otherwise levied against
any city police officer, up to $100,000 per incident.
   (D)   It is understood that employees of the city Police Department who act
outside the scope of their employment, or commit acts of willful misconduct,
would not qualify for this type of legal immunity or indemnification.
(Ord. 21-0413-250, passed 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Department created
   
35.02   Appointments
   
35.03   Rank
   
35.04   Duties of Fire Chief
   
35.05   Duties of members
   
35.06   Command at fires
   
35.07   Records
   
35.08   Obedience to orders
   
35.09   Rules and regulations
   
35.10   Volunteers
   
35.11   Bonds
   
35.12   Temporary appointments
   
35.13   Terms of office
   
35.14   Foreign fire insurance companies
   
35.15   Reimbursement for hazardous material responses
Firefighting Service Outside of City Limits
   
35.25   Firefighters’ Pension Fund; coverage
Rules and Regulations Provided for the Efficient Service of Fire Department
   
35.45   Illegal to drive across fire hose while in use
   
35.46   Illegal to obstruct firefighters or equipment while in use
   
35.47   Illegal to park vehicles in any way hindering operation of fire truck
or within five feet of either side of the doors of fire house
   
35.48   Illegal to remove firefighting equipment from storage
   
35.49   Illegal to obstruct use of fire hydrant
   
35.50   Regulation of automatic alarms, alerting devices and mechanical dialers
   35.51   Required maintenance for alarms; false alarms due to lack of
maintenance
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department for the city which shall consist
of a Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, firefighters and other members as may be
provided for by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.010)
§ 35.02 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the City Council, and may or may not be
appointed from the members of the Fire Department. All other appointments or
promotions within the Fire Department shall be made by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.020)
§ 35.03 RANK.
   The Fire Chief shall be the head of the Fire Department and have supervision
over all officers and members thereof. Following him or her in rank shall be
the Assistant Fire Chief and firefighters in order of seniority.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.030)
§ 35.04 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have the control, subject to the order and direction of
the City Council, of the Fire Department and all fire apparatus belonging to
the city; whenever any fire apparatus needs repairing, the Fire Chief shall
cause the same to be done without delay.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.040)
§ 35.05 DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the function and duty of Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the
occurrence or spread of those fires.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.050)
§ 35.06 COMMAND AT FIRES.
   In case of fire, the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief or firefighters in
order of seniority shall take command of the Fire Department, and direct the
management thereof for the suppression of the fire, in the best manner
possible; and when it may be necessary for the protection of other property and
to prevent the spread of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause
buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner possible.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.060)
§ 35.07 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all fires.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.070)
§ 35.08 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   Any firefighter in attendance at a fire who shall neglect or refuse to obey
the orders of the officer in command at the fire shall, upon conviction, be
fined.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.080) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Chief may make or prescribe those rules and regulations as he or
she shall deem advisable. These rules, when approved by the City Council, shall
be binding on the members. These rules and regulations may cover, besides the
conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried, hours of
service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or desirable for the
better efficiency of the Fire Department.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.090)
§ 35.10 VOLUNTEERS.
   The Fire Department shall consist of those other persons as volunteer their
services to the Fire Department.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.100)
§ 35.11 BONDS.
   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall each be required to enter into
a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with security to be approved by
the City Council conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties as
those officers and to keep the city harmless from all damage caused by neglect
or breach of their official duty.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.110)
§ 35.12 TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
   In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet extraordinary
exigencies or to prevent material impairment of either the Police or Fire
Department, the Board may make temporary appointments, to remain in force until
regular appointments may be made under the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
Art. 10, Div. 2.1, but never to exceed 60 days. No temporary appointment of any
one person shall be made more than twice in any calendar year.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.120)
§ 35.13 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall serve a term that shall
coincide with the term of office of the Mayor who appointed them, but shall not
exceed the term of the said Mayor and shall continue in their office until
their successors are appointed and qualified; provided that they may be removed
in the manner provided for the removal of officers; provided that if any member
of the Fire Department having a rank therein shall be appointed Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, upon the expiration of his or her term or the termination
of his or her services for any reason, he or she shall resume the status of
rank held before his or her appointment as Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.130) (Ord. 23-0613-332, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 35.14 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under
the laws of the state and which are engaged in the city in effecting fire
insurance, shall pay to the City Treasurer for maintenance, use and benefit of
the Fire Department of the city, 2% of the net receipts received by their
agency in the city, which sum shall be paid on or before July 15 of each and
every year. Every person in the city who shall act as an agent for and on
behalf of any corporation, company or association shall on or before July 15 of
each and every year render to the City Clerk a full, true and just account,
verified by his or her oath of all premiums which during the year ending on
July 1 preceding any corporation, company or association and shall specify in
the report the amount received for fire insurance, and at the time of rendering
the report shall pay to the City Treasurer the aforesaid 2% of the net receipts
received on premiums by him or her.
   (B)   Any corporation, company or association failing or refusing to render
an account on or before the day herein designated or failing or refusing to
make the payment aforesaid shall not be permitted to transact any insurance in
the city until the account shall have been fully rendered and the payment made
as herein provided.
   (C)   The money collected by the Treasurer under the provisions of this
section shall be set apart for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire
Department and shall be kept in a separate fund, to be known as the Fire
Department Fund.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.140) (Ord. 9, passed 8-14-1922)
§ 35.15 REIMBURSEMENT FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSES.
   (A)   The Fire Department is hereby authorized to control and eliminate
hazardous materials (as that term is defined in the Hazardous Material
Emergency Response Reimbursement Act) and hazardous material emergencies. The
Fire Department shall have the authority to summarily remove, abate, and remedy
all hazardous material emergencies or incidents within or without the corporate
limits of the city which are dangerous or prejudicial to public health or
public safety. The responsible party, as that term is defined in ILCS Ch. 430,
Act 55, § 3(c) of the Hazardous Material Emergency Response Reimbursement Act
(ILCS Ch. 430, Act 55, §§ 1 et seq.) shall be responsible for all expenses
incurred by the Fire Department in eliminating hazardous materials and
hazardous material emergencies. If there are multiple responsible parties, such
parties are jointly and severally liable for all expenses incurred by the Fire
Department, in eliminating and/or controlling hazardous materials and hazardous
material emergencies.
   (B)   The Fire Department as determined by its Chief or his or her designee
is hereby authorized to seek and obtain the services of an independent
hazardous material specialist or to seek and obtain the service of a hazardous
material specialist associated with the company or companies responsible for
the removal, abatement or remedy of a hazardous material emergency or incident
shall include but be limited to charges for all materials used; a charge for
all firefighting services including equipment and manpower; charges for
experts, specialists or other consultants; and all other charges associated or
related to the hazardous material emergency or incident.
   (C)   The Fire Chief of Fire Department shall ascertain the expenses
incurred in removing, abating or remedying the hazardous material emergency or
incident and shall notify the responsible party (as that term is defined in the
Hazardous Material Emergency Response Reimbursement Act) in writing that all
expenses and charges are due and payable within 30 days from the date the said
notice was first mailed by first-class U.S. Mail. Any person who shall fail or
refuse to pay the expenses of removal, abatement or remedy shall be liable for
all attorneys' fees, collection costs and other expenses incurred by the city
in collecting the amounts owing. Monies collected hereunder as expenses for
removal, abatement or remedy of any hazardous material emergency or incident
shall be used by the City of Fairfield to purchase materials, training and
programs for controlling and containing hazardous material emergencies and
incidents.
(Ord. 24-0109-355, passed 1-9-2024)
FIREFIGHTING SERVICE OUTSIDE OF CITY LIMITS
§ 35.25 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND; COVERAGE.
   The benefits of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund established by the city shall
inure to firefighters qualified thereunder, while acting pursuant to authority
given by §
35.09.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.220) (Ord. 801, passed 2-5-1963)
RULES AND REGULATIONS PROVIDED FOR THE EFFICIENT SERVICE OF FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.45 ILLEGAL TO DRIVE ACROSS FIRE HOSE WHILE IN USE.
   Any person who shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle, traction
engine, gasoline engine or tractor or any other thing across and upon the fire
hose of the City Fire Department in any place within the city where a the hose
are being used by the Fire Department in the discharge of its duties, shall be
fined.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.230) (Ord. 251, passed 8-19-1925) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.46 ILLEGAL TO OBSTRUCT FIREFIGHTERS OR EQUIPMENT WHILE IN USE.
   Any person hindering or obstructing any member of the City Fire Department
in the discharge of his or her duties or in any way hinders the Fire Department
in the use of the fire equipment in the discharge of its duties, shall be
fined.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.240) (Ord. 251, passed 8-19-1925; Ord. 310, passed 1-2-1928)
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.47 ILLEGAL TO PARK VEHICLES IN ANY WAY HINDERING OPERATION OF FIRE TRUCK
OR WITHIN FIVE FEET OF EITHER SIDE OF THE DOORS OF FIRE HOUSE.
   Any person who shall park any vehicle within five feet of either side of any
door of the fire house of the city or shall park any vehicle in any position
that would hinder or delay the operation of the truck in the discharge of its
duties shall be fined.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.250) (Ord. 471, passed 3-19-1940) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.48 ILLEGAL TO REMOVE FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT FROM STORAGE.
   Any person or persons who shall remove from the place of storage any fire
engines, ladders, buckets, hook and ladder wagons or any appliances used in
fighting fire, except in case of fire or for the purpose of repairing the same,
shall be fined.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.260) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.49 ILLEGAL TO OBSTRUCT USE OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   (A)   No person shall in any manner obstruct the use of any fire hydrant, or
have or place any material in front thereof or within eight feet from either
side thereof.
   (B)   No person shall park any motor vehicle within eight feet of any city
fire hydrant of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.270) (Ord. 530, passed 1-5-1943) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.50 REGULATION OF AUTOMATIC ALARMS, ALERTING DEVICES AND MECHANICAL
DIALERS.
   The installation or maintaining of an automatic dialer or alarm capable of
automatically dialing into the City Fire Department’s emergency telephone line
is prohibited.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.280) (Ord. 1509, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.51 REQUIRED MAINTENANCE FOR ALARMS; FALSE ALARMS DUE TO LACK OF
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical,
arranged to signal the occurrence of any emergency at a protected premises to
which the police or fire department are expected to respond.
      (2)   FALSE ALARM. An alarm system activated, in the absence of an
emergency, by any mechanical or electrical malfunction of the alarm system, due
to a failure of the property owner to provide proper maintenance of the alarm
system and to which the Department of Police or Fire is alerted for a response.
A false alarm shall not include an alarm activated by testing or repairing of
telephone or electrical lines or equipment outside the premises if prior notice
of the testing or repair is given to the Department of Police or Fire;
unusually violent conditions of nature; an illegal entry, theft or robbery, or
an attempt thereof; or an observable act of vandalism, where evidence of such
activity exists. Also, a false alarm shall not include an alarm to the Police
Department that is canceled by an alarm monitoring service, prior to arrival of
the police.
   (B)   Fire alarm installer. The fire alarm installer shall be registered
with the State of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Private Detective, Private
Alarm and Private Security Act of 1983.
   (C)   False alarm prohibited. It is unlawful for any alarm user to control
or possess an alarm system that generates, transmits or issues a false alarm as
defined in this section, on three separate occasions within any one 90-day
period.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any firefighter in violation of §
35.08 shall upon conviction be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.080)
   (C)   Any agent, company, corporation or association willfully violating §
35.14 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 or may be sued in
civil action for the recovery of the fine.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.140)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
35.45 shall be fined not less than $5 and not to exceed $100.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.230)
   (E)    Any person violating the provisions of §
35.46 shall be fined not less than $5 and not to exceed $100.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.240)
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
35.47 shall be fined not less than $5 and not to exceed $100.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.250)
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
35.48 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.260)
   (H)   Any person found guilty of violating §
35.49 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.270)
   (I)   A violation of §
35.50 shall constitute a petty offense punishable by a fine of not more than
$500.
(1986 Code, § 2.42.280)
   (J)   Any person or entity that violates any of the provisions of §
35.51 shall be fined not less than $75 and not more than $750 for each
violation. Any person or entity that violates any of the provisions of §
35.51 shall be liable for the costs of the response as allowed by statute.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-14-1922; Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922; Ord. 251, passed 8-19-
1925; Ord. 310, passed 1-2-1928; Ord. 471, passed 3-19-1940; Ord. 530, passed
1-5-1943; Ord. 1509, passed - -1998; Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Fiscal year
   
36.002   Claims against city
   
36.003   Collection policy
Service Occupation Tax
   
36.015   Imposed; rate fixed
   
36.016   Report to State Department of Revenue; required
   
36.017   Payment
   
36.018   Transmission of ordinance copy
Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
36.030   Imposed; rate fixed
   
36.031   Report to State Department of Revenue; required
   
36.032   Payment
   
36.033   Transmission of ordinance copy
Simplified Municipal Telecommunication Tax Rate
   
36.045   Imposed tax rate
Customer Utility Connection Fees
   
36.075   Residential utility service connection fees
   
36.076   Commercial utility connection fees
   
36.077   Application for utility service
   
36.078   Customer utility service connection fees
Bad Check Charge
   
36.090   Bad check charge
   
36.091   Utility late charges
   
36.092   Revocation of licenses and privileges
Renting, Leasing or Letting Rooms in Hotel or Motel
   
36.100   Definitions
   
36.101   Tax levied and imposed
   
36.102   Records required to be kept
   
36.103   Returns
   
36.104   Use of funds
   
36.105   Enforcement
   
36.106   Penalties
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
36.120   Tax imposed; rate
   
36.121   Collection of tax by retailers
   
36.122   Severability
   
36.123   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 FISCAL YEAR.
   The municipal or fiscal year of the city shall commence on May 1 in each
year and close on April 30 in the year following.
(1986 Code, § 3.02.010) (Ord. 16, passed 8-14-1922)
§ 36.002 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   No person shall be allowed to retain any moneys belonging to the city in his
or her hands for any claim or demand he or she may have against the city, but
shall pay over that money to the City Treasurer and present his or her claim
before the City Council to be audited and allowed as other claims.
(1986 Code, § 3.02.020) (Ord. 365, passed 4-30-1931)
§ 36.003 COLLECTION POLICY.
   (A)   The city’s policy for collection of invoices sent to individuals and/
or businesses for services rendered (not including regular monthly utility
charges) or for the cost incurred from repairs done as a result of damages to
city-owned property, including all associated labor and materials shall be that
the invoices be paid in full within 30 days from the date listed on the
invoice.
   (B)   If the individual and/or business has city utilities with the city and
if the invoice has not been paid in full within 30 days, the total amount of
the invoice may be added to their utility bill on the next billing cycle and
shall be paid in full by the fifteenth of the month. Otherwise the balance will
be subject to all penalties and shut-off policies associated with a utility
bill.
   (C)   If the individual and/or business does not have city utilities with
the city and the invoice is not paid in full within 30 days the invoice will be
assessed a late penalty fee of 10% per month on the unpaid balance including
any previous late fees.
   (D)   Collection process for closed (final) bills. The following is the
process for collecting any unpaid balances of closed utility accounts.
      (1)   An initial final bill is mailed to the customer with any and all
utility charges for services through the final date of usage.
      (2)   Thirty days after initial final bill is mailed, the account is
reviewed to determine if the customer is still a city utility customer.
      (3)   If they are a customer, and the balance has remained unpaid, the
entire balance will be transferred to the current account (address). This makes
the current account a candidate for penalties and disconnection, should the
balance not be paid.
      (4)   If they are no longer a customer, it is verified the city does not
owe the individual any monies that may have been held as a deposit. Please
note, deposits have not been accepted since 2013. Since then, connection fees
have been required. Connection fees are non-refundable, as stated on the
original application for service.
      (5)   A second notice is mailed. Previously a warning was not printed,
now all second notices for final bills state:
         “ALL possible avenues will be pursued to collect any unpaid balances.
This may include the assistance of a third party collection agency.”
      (6)   Should the account become more than 90 days delinquent, the account
is submitted to a collection agency. The city’s current collection agency is
Online Utility Exchange. Online Utility Exchange becomes responsible for all
further collection efforts.
      (7)   If a customer challenges the balance due, the city will provide a
history to verify the amount due.
(Ord. 13-1126-63, passed 11-26-2013; Ord. 18-0123-148, passed 1-23-2018; Ord.
22-0412-282, passed 4-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Termination of utility service for nonpayment of bills, see §§ 50.01 through
50.03
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.015 IMPOSED; RATE FIXED.
   A tax is imposed upon all persons, engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible property transferred by the service people either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to the
sale of service in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
(1986 Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 907, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.016 REPORT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE; REQUIRED.
   Every supplier or service person required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file on or before the
last day of each calendar month the report to the State Department of Revenue
required by the Service Occupation Tax Act.
(1986 Code, § 3.04.020) (Ord. 907, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.017 PAYMENT.
   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(1986 Code, § 3.04.030) (Ord. 907, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.018 TRANSMISSION OF ORDINANCE COPY.
   The City Clerk is directed to transmit to the State Department of Revenue a
certified copy of the ordinance codified in this subchapter not later than five
days after the effective date of the ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 3.04.040) (Ord. 907, passed 8-5-1969)
RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.030 IMPOSED; RATE FIXED.
   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from the sales made in the course of that business while this
subchapter is in effect in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5.
(1986 Code, § 3.06.010) (Ord. 906, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.031 REPORT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE; REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged in this business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month a report to the State Department of Revenue
required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120.
(1986 Code, § 3.06.020) (Ord. 906, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.032 PAYMENT.
   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(1986 Code, § 3.06.030) (Ord. 906, passed 8-5-1969)
§ 36.033 TRANSMISSION OF ORDINANCE COPY.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State Department of
Revenue a certified copy of the ordinance codified in this subchapter not later
than five days after the effective date of the ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 3.06.040) (Ord. 906, passed 8-5-1969)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATION TAX RATE
§ 36.045 IMPOSED TAX RATE.
   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under
the provision of ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636 is hereby changed to 6%.
(1986 Code, § 3.08.010) (Ord. 885, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 1566, passed - -2002;
Ord. 13-0625-52, passed 6-25-2013)
CUSTOMER UTILITY CONNECTION FEES
§ 36.075 RESIDENTIAL UTILITY SERVICE CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Prior to receiving city utility services, a single family residential
customer shall pay a service connection fee of $50 for each utility required.
For those outside the city limits, the connection fee will be $75 for each
utility required.
   (B)   Single family residential customers shall be required to pay the
service connection fee whether or not the connection is for a new customer or
to reconnect a previously disconnected customer.
   (C)   All service connection fees shall be nonrefundable.
   (D)   A single family residential customer with no unpaid balance shall
transfer to another address with no charge.
(1986 Code, § 3.15.010) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 13-0611-51, passed 6-
11-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
§ 36.076 COMMERCIAL UTILITY CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   All commercial customers shall pay a connection fee of $150.
   (B)   All commercial customers shall be required to pay the connection fee
whether or not the connection is for a new customer or to reconnect a
previously disconnected customer.
   (C)   All connection fees shall be nonrefundable.
   (D)   A commercial customer with no unpaid balance shall transfer to another
address with no charge.
(1986 Code, § 3.15.020) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 13-0611-51, passed 6-
11-2013; Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
§ 36.077 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   All applications for electric service shall be signed by all customers
using the service.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied with the required utility
service connection fee. The City Collector shall terminate utility service for
all customers who do not fully comply with the requirements of the applications
or who do not make the required service connection fee payment in full. The
City Collector is authorized to determine the form of the application required
for utility service from time to time, with the approval of the Finance
Committee of the City Council.
   (C)   Application fee. A customer requesting residential utility will be
required to pay a non refundable application fee of $25.
   (D)   Utility service fee.
      (1)   All residential utility customers shall be required to pay utility
service fees as described below:
      (2)   The city’s utility service fees policy is designed to assess the
credit risk associated with the applications for utility services. The charges
required herein will be based upon the use of a screening tool to assess credit
risk at the point application. The city shall consider the status of the
applicant and act according to the following criteria. The potential delinquent
risk percentages will be calculated by a National Credit Rating Service to be
chosen by the employees of the city. The city’s residential utility service
fees shall be calculated as follows:
         (a)   Except as herein provided, for regular residential utility
service inside the city limits there will be a $50 fee, per utility, for
applicants with a credit rating for 0% through 9.9% potential delinquency risk.
There will be a $75 fee, per utility, for applicants with a credit rating of
10.0% through 24.9% potential delinquency risk. There will be a $125 fee, per
utility, for applicants with a credit rating of 25% or more potential
delinquency risk.
         (b)   Except as herein provided, for regular residential utility
service outside the city limits, there will be a $75 fee, per utility, for
applicants with a credit rating for 0% through 9.9% potential delinquency risk.
There will be a $100 fee, per utility, for applicants with a credit rating of
10.0% through 24.9% potential delinquency risk. There will be a $150 fee, per
utility, for applicants with a credit rating of 25% or more potential
delinquency risk.
         (c)   Applicants with no credit history or no credit record found will
be charged a $75 fee, per utility, for residential utility service within the
city limits, and a $100 fee, per utility, for residential utility service
outside the city limits.
         (d)   If an applicant for utility service provides a social security
number that is returned as deceased, non-issued, belonging to a person under
the age of 18, or belonging to a person other than the applicant or is in any
way fraudulent, the residential utility service applicant will be denied
service until the applicant provides solid proof of identity (i.e., a valid
driver’s license, social security card, or other form of acceptable
identification). If said applicant does not provide valid proof of identity
utility services will not be provided.
         (e)   The city will not demand that an applicant provide a social
security number as a requirement for service. If an applicant elects not to
provide a social security number, the applicant will be assessed a fee of $125
per utility for customers within the city limits and a fee of $150 per utility
for customers outside the city limits.
         (f)   An applicant who has an unpaid utility bill reported by a credit
reporting service shall pay a fee of $125 per utility, for residential utility
service within the city limits and a $150 fee, per utility, for residential
utility service provided outside the city limits.
         (g)   If an applicant for residential utility service has an existing
service in good standing with the City of Fairfield, or had service in the
previous two years with an acceptable payment record, there will be no utility
service fee required from the applicant.
         (h)   All utility service fees described above are non-refundable.
   (E)   Collection of unpaid residential utility charges. The City Municipal
Collector is hereby authorized, but not required to request collections of all
unpaid residential utility charges by the national credit service chosen by the
city or any other debt collection service.
(1986 Code, § 3.15.030) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 13-0611-51, passed 6-
11-2013; Ord. 14-0610-71, passed 6-10-2014; Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
§ 36.078 CUSTOMER UTILITY SERVICE CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   All service connection fees shall be nonrefundable.
   (B)   A customer with no unpaid balance shall transfer to another address
with no charge.
(Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
BAD CHECK CHARGE
§ 36.090 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   Persons, corporations or other entities who tender payment of obligations to
the city by means of a check payable to the city which is later returned unpaid
by the bank on which the check is drawn shall pay a service charge of $30 for
each check returned unpaid. The City Collector shall collect the service charge
in addition to the amount of the check payable to the city returned unpaid.
(1986 Code, § 3.20.010) (Ord. 1452, passed - -1995; Ord. 14-0114-66, passed 1-
14-2014)
§ 36.091 UTILITY LATE CHARGES.
   In the event a city utility customer tenders payment of a city utility bill
with a check payable to the city which is returned unpaid to the city by the
bank upon which the check is drawn, the city utility customer shall also pay
the late penalty added to the customer’s utility bill under §§
52.051,
53.053 and
54.084 of this code when the customer’s city utility account becomes
delinquent, in addition to the service charge provided in this chapter. The
tender of a check in payment of a customer’s city utility account shall not be
considered a timely payment of the customer’s utility account when the check
tendered to the city is later returned unpaid by the bank on which the check is
drawn for payment.
(1986 Code, § 3.20.020) (Ord. 1452, passed - -1995)
§ 36.092 REVOCATION OF LICENSES AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   In the event a person, corporation or other business entity pays a fee
or charge for a city license or privilege under this code or otherwise with a
check payable to the city which is returned unpaid to the city by the bank upon
which the check is drawn, the license or privilege granted by city in
consideration of the check later returned unpaid shall be null and void
immediately upon return of the check unpaid until the amount of the returned
check is paid in full to the city, together with the service charge for a
returned check provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Collector shall have the duty to notify the appropriate city
department granting the license or privilege immediately upon the return of the
check tendered in payment of the license or privilege so that the appropriate
city personnel may rescind the license or privilege immediately.
(1986 Code, § 3.20.030) (Ord. 1452, passed - -1995)
RENTING, LEASING OR LETTING ROOMS IN HOTEL OR MOTEL
§ 36.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes, but is not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or
courts, lodging houses, rooming houses and apartment houses, retreat centers,
conference centers, and hunting lodges.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. A person who rents a hotel or motel room in the same
establishment for more than 30 consecutive days or to a person who works and
lives in the same hotel or motel.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   RECORDS. All data maintained by the taxpayer that reflects transactions that
are subject to this subchapter, including data kept on paper or stored on any
computer or electronic device.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.101 TAX LEVIED AND IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting or leasing rooms in a hotel or motel within the city a tax
of 5% of the gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing or letting of a
hotel or motel room within the city for each 24-hour period or any portion
thereof for which a daily room charge is made, provided, however, a tax shall
not be levied or imposed upon any person who shall be a permanent resident.
   (B)   Persons subject to the tax hereby imposed may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability for such tax by separately filing such tax as an additional
charge, which charge may be stated in combination and in single amount with the
state tax imposed under the Hotel Operator's Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS Ch.
35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.
   (C)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the operator to pay the
amount of the tax to the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.102 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT.
   Every operator shall keep record of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon. The records shall be
kept separately from transactions not taxable under this subchapter. Such
records shall be available for inspection and examination for any proper
purpose at any time upon demand by the City Treasurer or a duly authorized
agent of the City Treasurer or an auditor conducting an audit on behalf of the
city. Such records shall be preserved for a period of three years.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.103 RETURNS.
   (A)   The operator of each hotel within the city shall file tax returns
showing gross rental receipts excluding all taxes and deducting therefrom all
gross rental receipts from permanent residents with respect to each hotel room
during each monthly period commencing on July 1, 2019 and continuing on the
first day of each and every month thereafter on forms prescribed by the City
Clerk. The return shall be due on or before the last day of the calendar month
succeeding the end of the monthly filing period.
   (B)   If the operator's average monthly tax liability to the city does not
exceed $250, the City Treasurer may authorize the operator to file the tax
returns on a quarterly basis, with the return for January, February and March
of a given year being due by April 30 of such year; with the return for April,
May and June of a given year being due by July 31 of such year; with the return
for July, August and September of a given year being due by October 31 of such
year; and with the return for October, November and December of a given year
being due by January 31 of the following year. The quarterly returns, as to
form and substance, shall be subject to the same requirements as monthly
returns.
   (C)   The authority to file the operator's return on a quarterly basis may
be suspended by the City Treasurer if the operator:
      (1)   Fails to pay a quarterly return within the required time; or
      (2)   Fails to provide documentation substantiating the deduction of
rental receipts for renting or leasing to permanent residents during the
reporting period for a quarterly return.
   (D)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this subchapter shall
commence July 1, 2019, and the tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before August 31, 2019. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. At the
time of filing said tax returns, the operator shall pay to the city all taxes
due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (E)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 10% per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed
from the day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
   (F)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section, a late filing penalty of 5% of the
amount of tax required to be shown on a return shall be imposed; and a late
payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed
within the time or manner provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this section and
prior to the city issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax
liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be assessed equal to 25% of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. If a failure to file penalty is assessed against the
operator, a late filing or payment penalty shall not apply.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.104 USE OF FUNDS.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the City Treasury and shall be credited
to and deposited in the Recreation Fund of the city. The amount of money
collected by the city pursuant to this subchapter shall be expended by the city
solely to promote tourism and conventions within the city or otherwise to
attract nonresident overnight visitors to the city. No funds received pursuant
to this subchapter shall be used to advertise for or otherwise promote new
competition in the hotel business. The specific use of the funds collected
pursuant to this subchapter shall be determined by the City Council in its sole
discretion consistent with the requirements listed in this section.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.105 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever any person violates any provision of this subchapter, the City
Attorney, upon request of the Mayor, shall bring or cause to be brought an
action to enforce payment of said tax or to prosecute any violation of any part
of this subchapter on behalf of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.106 PENALTIES.
   The purpose of imposing the following penalties is to insure the integrity
of the collection process established pursuant to this subchapter. Any person
engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting hotel rooms within the
city who fails to make a return, or to keep books and records as required
herein, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who, in any manner, willfully
violates any provision of this subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $200 nor more than $750 for the first offense and not less than $300
nor more than $750 for the second and each subsequent offense in any one-year
period. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof.
(Ord. 19-0611-172, passed 6-11-2019)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.120 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
(Ord. 19-1210-191, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 36.121 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-1210-191, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 36.122 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter, or the application of any provision of
this subchapter is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence
shall not affect other provisions of this subchapter, or their application,
that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or
its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of
such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-1210-191, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 36.123 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the
tax provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after the first
day of January, 2020. Copies of this subchapter shall be certified and sent to
the Illinois Department of Revenue prior to September 30, 2020.
(Ord. 19-1210-191, passed 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
37.01   Adoption and effective date of participation
   
37.02   Proof of participation
State Employees Ethics Act
   
37.15   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Prevailing Wage
   
37.35   Generally
   
37.36   Determination of wage rate
   
37.37   Posting
   
37.38   Publication and availability
Travel Expenses
   
37.45   Travel, meal and lodging expenses
Sexual Harassment
   
37.50   Prohibiting sexual harassment
Paid Leave Policy
   
37.60   Adoption of paid leave policy
Cross-reference:
   Pecuniary interest in contracts; prohibitions, see §
30.01
ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND
§ 37.01 ADOPTION AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF PARTICIPATION.
   The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund effective January 1, 1970.
(1986 Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 914, passed - -1969)
§ 37.02 PROOF OF PARTICIPATION.
   The City Clerk shall be directed to promptly file a certified copy of this
Ordinance 914 with the Board of Trustees of the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund.
(1986 Code, § 2.04.020) (Ord. 914, passed - -1969)
STATE EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 37.15 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and Article 10 (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the
“Act” in this section) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
the officers and employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act by
any officer or employee of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 1600, passed 5-11-2004)
PREVAILING WAGE
§ 37.35 GENERALLY.
   Not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages for work of
similar character on public works and the locality in which the work is
performed and not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages for
legal holidays and overtime work shall be paid to all laborers, workers and
mechanics employed by or on behalf of any public body engaged in the
construction of public works, exclusive of maintenance work. Only those
laborers, workers and mechanics as are directly employed by the contractors or
subcontractors and actual construction work on the site of the building or
construction job, and laborers, workers and mechanics engaged in the
transportation of materials and equipment to or from the site, but not
including the transportation by the sellers and suppliers of the manufacture or
processing of materials or equipment, in the execution of any contract or
contracts for public works with any public body shall be deemed to be employed
upon public works.
(1986 Code, § 30.01.010) (Ord. 1384, passed - -1992)
§ 37.36 DETERMINATION OF WAGE RATE.
   To the extent and as required by “The Prevailing Wage Act,” ILCS Ch. 820,
Act 130, §§ 0.01 et seq., as amended the general prevailing rate of wages in
this locality for laborers, mechanics, and other workers engaged in
construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the City Council
is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for
construction work in the Wayne County area as determined by the Department of
Labor of the State of Illinois as of June of the current year. A copy of that
determination is attached to Ord. 14-0610-70 as Exhibit A and incorporated by
reference. A required by the Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate
of wages by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois shall supersede
the Department’s June determination and apply to any and all public works
construction undertaken by the City Council. The definition of any terms
appearing in this subchapter which are also used in the Act shall be the same
as in the Act.
(1986 Code, § 30.01.020) (Ord. 1222, passed - -; Ord. 1238, passed - -; Ord.
1247, passed - -; Ord. 1262, passed - -; Ord. 1278, passed - -; Ord. 1301,
passed - -; Ord. 1319, passed - -; Ord. 1342, passed - -; Ord. 1355, passed -
-; Ord. 1365, passed - -; Ord. 1384, passed - -1992; Ord. 1574, passed 6-24-
2003; Ord. 1601, passed 6-8-2004; Ord. 1628, passed 6-14-2005; Ord. 1644,
passed 6-27-2006; Ord. 1659, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 08-0610-02, passed 6-10-
2008; Ord. 09-0609-07, passed 6-9-2009; Ord. 11- 0614-25, passed 6-14-2011;
Ord. 12-0612-38, passed 6-12-2012; Ord. 13-0611-49, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 14-
0610-70, passed 6-10-2014; Ord. 15-0623-92, passed 6-23-2015; Ord. 16-0628-112,
passed 6-28-2016; Ord. 17-0613-128, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 18-0612-155, passed
6-12-2018)
§ 37.37 POSTING.
   The City Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination or any
revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of
the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contact specifications. The City Clerk shall promptly
file a certified copy of the ordinance codified in this subchapter in the
office of the Secretary of State, Index Division, and the Department of Labor
of the State of Illinois.
(1986 Code, § 30.01.030) (Ord. 1384, passed - -1992; Ord. 12-0612-38, passed 6-
12-2012; Ord. 13-0611-49, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 14-0610-70, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 37.38 PUBLICATION AND AVAILABILITY.
   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a notice that the determination is effective and
that this is the determination of the public body. Further, the City Clerk
shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer or to any association
of employers and any person or association of employees who have filed their
names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the
particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages will be
affected by these rates.
(1986 Code, § 30.01.040) (Ord. 1384, passed - -1992; Ord. 12-0612-38, passed 6-
12-2012; Ord. 13-0611-49, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 14-0610-70, passed 6-10-2014)
TRAVEL EXPENSES
§ 37.45 TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES.
   (A)   Adoption. The Illinois General Assembly has recently enacted Public
Act 99-0604, known as the “Local Government Travel Expense Control Act,” which
Act becomes effective on January 1, 2017, and which is hereby adopted and
incorporated as if said Act were fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (C)   Permitted expenses. 
      (1)   The City Council shall reimburse permitted travel expenses as set
forth on Exhibit "A" to Ord. 16-1213-120, and further modified by “Exhibit A”
attached to Ord. 17-0110-121.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the City Council may approve more than the
maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (D)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the "Travel, Meal, and
Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form," attached to Ord. 16-1213-120 and
made a part hereof, has been submitted and approved. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140 §§ 1 et seq.).
   (E)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: (1) any officer or
employee that exceeds the maximum allowed under the regulations adopted under
division (C) of this section; or (2) any member of the City Council of the city
may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the City Council
of the city.
   (F)   The city will not reimburse out of pocket expenses unless the request
for reimbursement is accompanied by receipts for said expenses.
   (G)   The City Council may not reimburse any employee or officer for any
entertainment expense.
(Ord. 16-1213-120, passed 12-13-2016; Ord. 17-0110-121, passed 1-10-2017)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 37.50 PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the city to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls," "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic. "Sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel. 
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
         (d)   Allegations of sexual harassment made against an elected
official of the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental
unit. In addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected
official may request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment
by another elected official. The request shall be made to the Human Resources
Director, the City Manager or Administrator or the Chief Elected Official of
the municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate
action in keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a
qualified individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of
sexual harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent
review shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
      (3)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      (4)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations. 
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official’s:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174 § 15(a)),
an employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in
a court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174 § 15(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5 §
6-101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people
to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that
which he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge within 300 days of the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 5-65, may
be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 17-1226-144, passed 12-26-2017; Ord. 20-0825-223, passed 8-25-2020)
PAID LEAVE POLICY
§ 37.60 ADOPTION OF PAID LEAVE POLICY.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 820, Act 192, § 15(p), the city hereby adopts its
current paid leave policy for all city employees as set forth in the city’s
Code of Ordinances, employee handbook, annual salary ordinances, any collective
bargaining agreements to which the city is a party, and all other binding
legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the City Council, as the
same may be amended from time to time. However, in no event shall the city, as
an employer, provide less than one day of paid leave per year to any city
employee.
(Ord. 23-1212-353, passed 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 38: WARDS
Section
Wards
   
38.01   Authority to divide
   
38.02   Designation of wards
WARDS
§ 38.01 AUTHORITY TO DIVIDE.
   The city shall be divided into four wards.
(1986 Code, § 24.02.010)
§ 38.02 DESIGNATION OF WARDS.
   (A)   First Ward. All that part of the city lying east of First Street shall
constitute the First Ward.
   (B)   Second Ward. All that part of the city lying north of Elm Street, west
of North First Street and east of Northwest Seventh Street shall constitute the
Second Ward.
   (C)   Third Ward. All that part of the city lying south of Elm Street, west
of North First Street and South First Street, and east of Northwest Seventh
Street and Southwest Seventh Street shall constitute the Third Ward.
   (D)   Fourth Ward. All that part of the city lying west of Northwest Seventh
Street and Southwest Seventh Street shall constitute the Fourth Ward.
(1986 Code, § 24.02.020)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
39.01   Purpose
   
39.02   Scope
   
39.03   Definitions
   
39.04   Administration of the program
   
39.05   Identity theft prevention program
   
39.06   Program management and accountability
   
39.07   Other legal requirements
   
39.08   Procedures
Identity Protection Policy
   
39.20   Purpose
   
39.21   Prohibited acts
   
39.22   Exclusions from prohibitions
   
39.23   Freedom of Information Act requests
   
39.24   Applicability
   
39.25   Identity protection procedures
   
39.26   Distribution of policy
   
Appendix A: Alerts
Non-employees Riding in City-Owned Vehicles and Equipment
   
39.30   Parades and special events
   
39.31   Authorized passengers
   
39.32   Requirements for drivers and passengers
   
39.33   Airport courtesy shuttle
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 39.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this identity theft prevention program is to protect
customers of the municipality’s utility services from identity theft. The
program is intended to establish reasonable policies and procedures to
facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity theft in
connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on existing
covered accounts.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.02 SCOPE.
   This program applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
municipality (electric, natural gas, water and wastewater) by any and all
personnel of the municipality, including management personnel. This program
does not replace or repeal any previously existing policies or programs
addressing some or all of the activities that are the subject of this program,
but rather it is intended to supplement any existing policies and programs.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED ACCOUNT. An account that the municipality offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments of transactions (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(3)
(i)). A utility account is a COVERED ACCOUNT. The term COVERED ACCOUNT also
includes other accounts offered or maintained by the municipality for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers the municipality or its
customers from identity theft (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, Social Security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of IDENTIFYING INFORMATION are set forth in 16 C.F.R. §
603.2(a).
      IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 C.F.R. § 681.2(b)(8) and 16
C.F.R. § 603.2(a)).
      RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   (B)   Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings given to them in the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules (16 C.F.R. pt. 681) or
the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.), as amended
by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 into law on December
4, 2003 (Pub. L. No. 108-159).
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.04 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The initial adoption and approval of the identity theft prevention
program shall be by ordinance of the City Council. Thereafter, changes to the
program of a day-to-day operational character and decisions relating to the
interpretation and implementation of the program may be made by the Mayor
(Program Administrator). Major changes or shifts of policy positions under the
program shall only be made by the City Council.
   (B)   Development, implementation, administration and oversight of the
program will be the responsibility of the Program Administrator. The Program
Administrator may, but shall not be required to, appoint a committee to
administer the program. The Program Administrator shall be the head of any
committee. The Program Administrator will report at least annually to the City
Council regarding compliance with this program.
   (C)   Issues to be addressed in the annual identity theft prevention report
include:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the
risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts
and activity with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program, if needed for
improvement.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.05 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Identification of relevant red flags.
      (1)   The municipality has considered the guidelines and the illustrative
examples of possible red flags from the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules and has
reviewed the municipality’s past history with instances of identity theft, if
any.
      (2)   The municipality hereby determines that the following are the
relevant red flags for purposes of this program given the relative size of the
municipality and the limited nature and scope of the services that the
municipality provides to its citizens.
         (a)   Alerts, notifications or other warnings received from consumer
reporting agencies or service providers.
            1.   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer
report or an identity verification response from a credit reporting agency;
            2.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze
in response to a request for a consumer report;
            3.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address
discrepancy, as defined in § 681.1(b) of the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules; and
            4.   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
               a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of
inquiries;
               b.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
               c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
               d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for
abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
         (b)   The presentation of suspicious documents.
            1.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been
altered or forged;
            2.   The photograph or physical description on the identification
is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting
the identification;
            3.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification;
            4.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the municipality, such as a
signature card or a recent check; and
            5.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or
gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
         (c)   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information,
such as a suspicious address change.
            1.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the municipality. For
example:
               a.   The address does not match any address in the consumer
report or CRA ID Check response; or
               b.   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File.
            2.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the Social
Security number range and date of birth;
            3.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used
by the municipality. For example:
               a.   The address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application; or
               b.   The phone number on an application is the same as the
number provided on a fraudulent application.
            4.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type
commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-
party sources used by the municipality. For example:
               a.   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a mail
drop or a prison; or
               b.   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager
or answering service.
            5.   The Social Security number provided is the same as that
submitted by other persons opening an account or other customers;
            6.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of other persons opening accounts or other customers;
            7.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails
to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or
in response to notification that the application is incomplete;
            8.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent
with personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality;
and
            9.   If the municipality uses challenge questions, the person
opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating
information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
         (d)   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a
covered account.
            1.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a
covered account, the municipality receives a request for the addition of
authorized users on the account;
            2.   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example: the customer fails to make
the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments;
            3.   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities;
            4.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account,
the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors);
            5.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although usage of utility products or services continues in
connection with the customer’s covered account;
            6.   The municipality is notified that the customer is not
receiving paper account statements; and
            7.   The municipality is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer’s covered account.
         (e)   Notice of possible identity theft. The municipality is notified
by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority or any
other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in
identity theft.
   (B)   Detection of red flags.
      (1)   The employees of the municipality that interact directly with
customers on a day-to-day basis shall have the initial responsibility for
monitoring the information and documentation provided by the customer and any
third-party service provider in connection with the opening of new accounts and
the modification of or access to existing accounts and the detection of any red
flags that might arise. Management shall see to it that all employees who might
be called upon to assist a customer with the opening of a new account or with
modifying or otherwise accessing an existing account are properly trained so
that they have a working familiarity with the relevant red flags identified in
this program so as to be able to recognize any red flags that might surface in
connection with the transaction. An employee who is not sufficiently trained to
recognize the red flags identified in this program shall not open a new account
for any customer, modify any existing account or otherwise provide any customer
with access to information in an existing account without the direct
supervision and specific approval of a management employee. Management
employees shall be properly trained so that they can recognize the relevant red
flags identified in this program and exercise sound judgment in connection with
the response to any unresolved red flags that may present themselves in
connection with the opening of a new account or with modifying or accessing of
an existing account. Management employees shall be responsible for making the
final decision on any unresolved red flags.
      (2)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer may
apply for service, the information and documentation to be provided by the
prospective customer in connection with an application for a new utility
service account, the steps to be taken by the employee assisting the customer
with the application in verifying the customer’s identity and the manner in
which the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-
party service provider shall be maintained. This policy shall be generally
consistent with the spirit of the customer identification program rules (31
C.F.R. § 103.121) implementing § 326(a) of the USA Patriot Act but need not be
as detailed. The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the manner in which customers with existing
accounts shall establish their identity before being allowed to make
modifications to or otherwise gain access existing accounts.
   (C)   Response to detected red flags.
      (1)   (a)   If the responsible employees of the municipality as set forth
in division (B) above are unable, after making a good faith effort, to form a
reasonable belief that they know the true identity of a customer attempting to
open a new account or modify or otherwise access an existing account based on
the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-party
service provider, the municipality shall not open the new account or modify or
otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be.
         (b)   Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or the
modification or access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by employees
of the municipality and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
      (2)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an
unresolved red flag situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer’s account, or a
notice that a customer has provided account information to a fraudulent
individual or website. Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity
theft when a red flag is detected include:
         (a)   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
         (b)   Contacting the customer;
         (c)   Changing any passwords, security codes or other security devices
that permit access to a covered account;
         (d)   Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
         (e)   Not opening a new covered account;
         (f)   Closing an existing covered account;
         (g)   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a
covered account to a debt collector;
         (h)   Notifying law enforcement; and
         (i)   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.06 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
   (A)   Initial risk assessment; covered accounts.
      (1)   Utility accounts for personal, family and household purposes are
specifically included within the definition of covered account in the FTC’s
Identity Theft Rules. Therefore, the municipality determines that with respect
to its residential utility accounts it offers and/or maintains covered
accounts. The municipality also performed an initial risk assessment to
determine whether the utility offers or maintains any other accounts for which
there are reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or the utility from
identity theft.
      (2)   In making this determination the municipality considered:
         (a)   The methods it uses to open its accounts;
         (b)   The methods it uses to access its accounts; and
         (c)   Its previous experience with identity theft, and it concluded
that it does not offer or maintain any other covered accounts.
   (B)   Program updates; risk assessment.
      (1)   The program, including relevant red flags, is to be updated as
often as necessary but at least annually to reflect changes in risks to
customers from identity theft.
      (2)   Factors to consider in the program update include:
         (a)   An assessment of the risk factors identified above;
         (b)   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems
or procedures;
         (c)   Changes in methods of identity theft;
         (d)   Changes in methods to detect, prevent and mitigate identity
theft; and
         (e)   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers,
acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures and service provider arrangements.
   (C)   Training and oversight. All staff and third-party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.07 OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   (A)   31 U.S.C. § 5318(g) - Reporting of Suspicious Activities;
   (B)   15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1(h) - Identity Theft Prevention; Fraud Alerts and
Active Duty Alerts - Limitations on Use of Information for Credit Extensions;
   (C)   15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 - Responsibilities of Furnishers of Information to
Consumer Reporting Agencies; and
   (D)   15 U.S.C. § 1681m - Requirements on Use of Consumer Reports.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 39.08 PROCEDURES.
Alerts,                                   Unusual Use or
Notifications or   Suspicious Suspicious  Suspicious Activity
Warnings from      Documents  Personal ID Related to the      Notice of Theft
Consumer Reporting            Information Covered Account
Agency
Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from Consumer Reporting Agency               Suspicious     Suspicious Personal ID Information     Unusual Use or Suspicious Activity Related to the      Notice of
                                                                               Documents                                             Covered Account                                        Theft
                                                                                                                                                                                            Utility is
                                                                                                                                                                                            notified
                                                                                                                                                                                            by law
                                                                                                                                                                                            officials
                                                                                              Personal ID is inconsistent with                                                              or others,
                                                                               Documents      external information sources:          Change of billing address is followed by request for   that it
                                                                               provided for   addresses do not match consumer report adding additional properties to the account (or        has opened
A fraud of active duty alert is included with a consumer report                ID appeared    or Social Security (SS) number has not shortly following the notification of a change in      a
                                                                               altered or     been issued or is listed on the Social address, the utility receives a request for the        fraudulent
                                                                               forged         Security Administration Death Master   addition of authorized users on the account)           account
                                                                                              File                                                                                          for a
                                                                                                                                                                                            person
                                                                                                                                                                                            engaged in
                                                                                                                                                                                            identity
                                                                                                                                                                                            theft
                                                                               The photo or
                                                                               physical       Personal ID given by customer is not
                                                                               description is consistent with other personal ID      Payments are made in a manner associated with fraud;
Consumer reporting agency provides a credit freeze on the customer report      not consistent info.; e.g., there is a lack of        for example, deposit or initial payment is made and no
                                                                               with the       correlation between the Social         payments are made thereafter
                                                                               appearance of  Security number range and DOB
                                                                               the applicant
                                                                               Other
                                                                               information
                                                                               given to open  Personal ID provided is associated
Consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy             the new        with known fraudulent activity; using  Existing account with a stable history shows
                                                                               account is not same addresses and or phone number’s irregularities
                                                                               consistent
                                                                               with the ID of
                                                                               the applicant
                                                                               Other
                                                                               information on
                                                                               the
                                                                               identification Personal ID is of the same type
                                                                               is not         associated with fraudulent activity:
A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with    consistent     fictitious address, mail box drop or   An account with low activity unexpectedly jumps to
the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer such as: with readily   prison or phone number is invalid; it  high consumption. Ex:1,000 kwh to 2,801 kwh
                                                                               accessible     is associated with a pager or
                                                                               info on file   answering service
                                                                               such as
                                                                               signature or
                                                                               recent check
                                                                               An application
                                                                               appears to
                                                                               have been
                                                                               altered or
   a. Recent or significant increase in the number of inquiries             forged, or     The Social Security number is the same Mail sent to customer is repeatedly returned
                                                                               gives the      as customers opening other accounts
                                                                               appearance of
                                                                               having been
                                                                               destroyed and
                                                                               reassembled
                                                                                              The address or phone number is the     Customer notifies utility that they are not receiving
   b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships                       same as a large number of other        their bill
                                                                                              applicants
   c. A material change in the use of credit especially with respect to new                The customer fails to provide all      The utility is notified of unauthorized charges or
established credit relationships                                                              needed personal ID upon request        transactions in connection with a customer’s account
   d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account              Personal ID is inconsistent with
privileges                                                                                    utility records
                                                                                              For institutions using challenge
                                                                                              questions, the person attempting to
                                                                                              access or open the account cannot
                                                                                              provide any information beyond what
                                                                                              would typically be found in a wallet
                                                                                              or consumer report
 
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY
§ 39.20 PURPOSE.
   This policy is adopted pursuant to the Identity Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 179, §§ 1 et seq.) to protect social security numbers from unauthorized
disclosure.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.21 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No city employee may do any of the following:
   (A)   Publicly post or publicly display or otherwise intentionally
communicate or otherwise intentionally make available to the general public in
any manner an individual’s social security number.
   (B)   Print an individual’s social security number on any card required for
the individual to access products or services provided by the city.
   (C)   Require an individual to transmit his or her social security number
over the Internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security
number is encrypted.
   (D)   Print an individual’s social security number on any materials that are
mailed to the individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail
service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or
federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, social
security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Any material in connection
with any tax administered by the Illinois Department of Revenue and documents
sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish, amend, or
terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the
social security number. A social security number that may permissibly be mailed
under this section may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or
other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope
without the envelope’s having been opened.
   (E)   Collect, use, or disclose a social security number from an individual,
unless:
      (1)   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection use, or disclosure of the social security number
is otherwise necessary for the performance of that agency’s duties and
responsibilities;
      (2)   The need and purpose for the social security number is documented
before collection of the social security number; and
      (3)   The social security number collected is relevant to the documented
need and purpose.
   (F)   Require an individual to use his or her social security number to
access an Internet website.
   (G)   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the purpose
for which it was collected.
   (H)   Encode or embed a social security number in or on a card or document,
including, but not limited to, using a bar code, chip, magnetic strip, RFID
technology, or other technology, in place of removing the social security
number as required by this policy.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.22 EXCLUSIONS FROM PROHIBITIONS.
   The prohibitions listed in §
39.21 do not apply in the following circumstances:
   (A)   The disclosure of social security number to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a
governmental entity to another governmental entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the governmental entity must first receive from the contractor
or subcontractor a copy of the contractor’s or subcontractor's policy that set
forth how the requirements imposed under the Identity Protection Act on a
governmental entity to protect an individual’s social security number will be
achieved.
   (B)   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order,
warrant, or subpoena.
   (C)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in order
to ensure the safety of: state and local government employees; person committed
to correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities
or retention centers; wards of the State; and all persons working in or
visiting a state or local government agency facility.
   (D)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
   (E)   The disclosure of social security numbers by a state agency to any
entity for the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or
to a governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention of
fraud.
   (F)   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or
prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.23 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS.
   Consistent with the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, city employees must
redact social security numbers from information or documents being supplied to
the public pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request before allowing the
public inspection or copying of the information or documents.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.24 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use, or disclosure of a
social security number as required by state or federal law, rule, or
regulation.
   (B)   This policy does not apply to documents that are recorded with a
county recorder or required to be open to the public under any state or federal
law, rule, or regulation, applicable case law, Supreme Court Rule, or the
Constitution of the state.
   (C)   If federal law takes effect requiring any federal agency to establish
a national unique patient health identifier program, any city employee that
complies with the federal law shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
policy.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.25 IDENTITY PROTECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All city employees having access to social security numbers in the
course of performing their duties shall be trained to protect the
confidentiality of social security numbers. The training shall include
instructions on the proper handling of information that contains social
security numbers from the time of collection through the destruction of the
information.
   (B)   Only city employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers have access to such information
or documents.
   (C)   Social security numbers requested from an individual shall be provided
in a manner that makes the social security number easily redacted if required
to be released as part of a public records request.
   (D)   When collecting a social security number, or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the city is
collecting and using the social security number shall be provided to the
individual.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 39.26 DISTRIBUTION OF POLICY.
   (A)   A written copy of this policy has been provided to the City Council.
   (B)   Each current city employee that deals with the collection of social
security numbers shall be provided and shall acknowledge receipt of a copy of
this policy. Each employee hereinafter hired by the city that deals with the
collection of social security numbers shall be provided and shall acknowledge
receipt of a copy of this policy upon commencing his or her employment. A copy
of this policy shall be made available to any member of the public, upon
request. If the city amends this policy, the city shall file a written copy of
the amended policy with the City Council, shall also advise all city employees
of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of this policy available
to each of its employees. The acknowledged copy shall be filed and maintained
in each city employee’s personnel file. This policy is effective March 27,
2012.
(Ord. 12-0327-34, passed 3-27-2012)
APPENDIX A: ALERTS
   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
   (A)   Procedure for opening new account.
      (1)   New electric utility accounts may be opened in the following
manner:
         (a)   In-person walk-in;
         (b)   Via telephone - optional - at the discretion of the Program
Administrator; or
         (c)   Via fax - optional - at the discretion of the Program
Administrator.
      (2)   Information and documentation required for walk-in (potential
customer to open new account):
         (a)   Driver’s license or alternate government issued picture ID
(required);
         (b)   Second form of identification, such as credit card (optional);
         (c)   New service address (required);
         (d)   New service telephone number (if new);
         (e)   Most recent previous address (required);
         (f)   Social Security number (optional) if in person;
         (g)   Permission signed for credit reporting agency (CRA) report
(optional);
         (h)   Deed or lease (optional);
         (i)   Set up challenge question - mother’s maiden name, date of birth;
and
         (j)   Signature on application (required).
      (3)   Steps to be taken by the CSR (optional):
         (a)   Check driver’s license/alternate government ID (prior training/
detecting fake IDs);
         (b)   Compare signature on application with signature on driver’s
license and second form of ID;
         (c)   Review checklist of red flags/determine if any present;
         (d)   Computer scan/make a copy of driver’s license/alternate
government ID; and
         (e)   Go online with CRA - enter data to computer database/software:
            1.   Validate name, Social Security number (SSN), last address;
            2.   Ensure SSN not on Death Master File (http://www.ssdmf.com);
            3.   Ensure not on active duty list; and
            4.   Ensure there are no fraud alerts.
      (4)   Additional information needed if not present in person (optional):
         (a)   SSN (required);
         (b)   Previous two addresses and how long at each;
         (c)   Previous employer;
         (d)   Current employer;
         (e)   Previous utility; and
         (f)   Identify potential customer depository bank or lending
institution.
      (5)   Additional steps by CSR (optional): additional validation of
information from CRA for above items.
      (6)   Specific rules/steps for phone:
         (a)   Do not process application if caller ID blocked; and
         (b)   Verity valid phone number in customer name.
      (7)   Steps for CSR to follow if validation of ID fails (optional):
         (a)   Tactfully advise potential customer of the issue, if
appropriate;
         (b)   Do not open account;
         (c)   Refer customer to external source that is the source of the red
flag (i.e., SSN Master File);
         (d)   Escalation to supervisor if situation with customer unresolved;
and
         (e)   Management employee/Program Administrator to make final decision
in his or her discretion whether to open new account.
   (B)   Records. In addition, all records containing customers’ personal
information are kept under lock and key until they can be destroyed according
to law.
(Ord. 08-1110-10, passed 11-10-2008)
NON-EMPLOYEES RIDING IN CITY-OWNED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 39.30 PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   For parades and special events (which includes any event that has been
sanctioned and allowed by the city), the following individuals are authorized
as passengers in vehicles or equipment owned by the city:
      (1)   Elected city officials;
      (2)   Appointed city officials;
      (3)   The immediate family and/or step-family of city officials and
employees (which shall include the parents, brothers, sisters, spouse or
children of the said city officials and employees).
   (B)   This section supersedes the existing Police Department policy as it
pertains to parades and special events. The Police Department policy as it
pertains to use of city vehicles and equipment for arrests, law enforcement
investigation and community care taking functions is not altered or otherwise
repealed by this section or this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-0611-174, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 39.31 AUTHORIZED PASSENGERS.
   (A)   The following individuals are authorized as passengers in vehicles or
equipment owned by the city during the business day of the city:
      (1)   Vendors;
      (2)   Contractors;
      (3)   Engineers; and
      (4)   Any duly authorized agent doing authorized work for the city.
   (B)   The above list of authorized passengers must, at all times, be
accompanied by either a city official or a city employee.
(Ord. 19-0611-174, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 39.32 REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVERS AND PASSENGERS.
   All drivers and passengers in vehicles or equipment owned by the city must
wear seat belts (in motor vehicles) or wear safety harnesses or safety
equipment (in other city-owned equipment). All drivers and passengers in
vehicles or equipment owned by the city must obey traffic laws.
(Ord. 19-0611-174, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 39.33 AIRPORT COURTESY SHUTTLE.
   The city Airport courtesy shuttle shall allow passengers in vehicles and
equipment owned by the city at the discretion of the Airport Manager or the
person on duty at the Airport.
(Ord. 19-0611-174, passed 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 40: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
40.01   Purpose
   
40.02   Definitions
   
40.03   Code hearing unit
   
40.04   Hearing procedures not exclusive
   
40.05   Instituting general ordinance hearing proceedings
   
40.06   Subpoenas; defaults
   
40.07   Continuances; representation at general ordinance hearings
   
40.08   Hearing; evidence
   
40.09   Costs for Municipal Court
   
40.10   Findings, decision and order
   
40.11   Review under administrative review law
   
40.12   Collection of unpaid fines, sanctions or costs; judgment on the
findings, decision and order
   
40.13   Collecting unpaid municipal fines and costs and establishing mandatory
court appearances
§ 40.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, a non-home
rule municipality may create a Code Hearing Department (commonly referred to as
a “Municipal Court”)for the consideration and disposition of alleged violations
of the city's ordinances. (See ILCS Ch. 65 Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq.).
   (B)   The City Council has determined that it would be in the best interest
of the public for establish a Municipal Court pursuant to the said provisions
of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CODE. Any city ordinance except for:
      (1)   Building code violations, or
      (2)   Any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offense under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney at law licensed in the State of Illinois for at
least three years, whose duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the respondent and all
interested parties relevant to the existence of a code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order stating
whether a code violation exists; and
      (5)   To impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
to assess costs reasonably related to instituting the proceeding upon finding
the respondent liable for the charged violation; provided, however, that in no
event shall the hearing officer have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration.
   RESPONDENT. A person charged with liability for an alleged ordinance
violation and the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.03 CODE HEARING UNIT.
   The city hereby adopts division 2.2 Code Hearing Departments, ILCS Ch. 65 ,
Act 5, § 1-2.2, and all amendments and modifications thereto, and establishes a
general ordinance hearing unit. The Code Hearing Unit shall consist of the
Hearing Officer and the City Clerk. The function of the general ordinance
hearing unit is to expedite the prosecution and correction of general ordinance
violations in the manner set forth in this chapter. The general ordinance
hearing unit may adjudicate any violation of a city ordinance except for
building code violations, and any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a
similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles
and except for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.04 HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This chapter does not preclude the city from using other methods to enforce
the provisions of its code as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.05 INSTITUTING GENERAL ORDINANCE HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   When a police officer, city inspector or other individual authorized
by the city to issue an ordinance violation finds an ordinance violation to
exist, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice
and report form, indicating the name and address of the respondent, the type
and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was observed, the
names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the location or
property where the violation is observed, if applicable.
   (B)   The violation notice and report form shall be forwarded to the City
Clerk where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a
hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose on
the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 nor more than 40 days
after the violation is reported. However, if the code violation involves a city
ordinance regulating daytime curfew, the hearing date shall not be less than
seven nor more than 40 days after the violation is reported. The violation
notice and report form shall state that failure to appear at the hearing on the
date indicated may result in a determination of liability for the cited
violation and the imposition of fines and assessment of costs as provided by
the applicable city ordinance. The violation notice and report form shall also
state that upon a determination of liability and the exhaustion or failure to
exhaust procedures for judicial review, any unpaid fines or costs imposed will
constitute a debt due and owing the city.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the City Clerk and shall be part of the record of hearing; one copy of the
report form shall be returned to the individual representing the city in the
case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the code violation for
presentation at the hearing on the date indicated; and one copy of the
violation report form shall be served upon the respondent either personally, by
first class mail, postage prepaid, and sent to the address of the respondent
along with a summons commanding the respondent to appear at the hearing.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.06 SUBPOENAS; DEFAULTS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of the attorney for the city, or the respondent or
his or her attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give
testimony at the hearing. If on the date set for hearing the respondent or his
or her attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the respondent in
default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of an ordinance violation.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.07 CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATION AT GENERAL ORDINANCE HEARINGS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in proceedings
under this article except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary
to protect the rights of the respondent. Lack of preparation shall not be
grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer
under this chapter shall not exceed 25 days. The case for the city may be
presented by an attorney designated by the city or by any other city employee,
except that the case for the city shall not be presented by an employee of the
code hearing unit. The case for the respondent may be presented by the
respondent or his or her attorney.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.08 HEARING; EVIDENCE.
   The hearing officer shall preside at the hearing, shall hear testimony, and
shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of an
ordinance violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.09 COSTS FOR MUNICIPAL COURT.
   In addition to any fine or sanction imposed by the hearing officer, there
shall be a fee of $100 imposed as costs for Municipal Court for any respondent
who is found to have violated the code.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.10 FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not an ordinance violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall be designated as findings, decision, and order. The findings
and order shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision
whether or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an
order ordering the respondent to remedy the violation or dismissing the case,
in the event a violation is not proved. If the hearing officer determines that
the respondent is liable for the cited violation, the hearing officer shall
enter an order imposing sanctions that are provided for in the code for the
violation proved, including the imposition of fines and recovery of the costs
of the proceedings, which costs shall be enforced in like manner as the
enforcement of fines and penalties. A copy of the findings, decision, and order
shall be served on the respondent within five days after it is issued; service
shall be in the same manner as the report form and summons are served pursuant
to §
40.05(C) of this chapter. Payment of any fine and costs for Municipal Court
shall be tendered to the City Collector. Any fine and costs for Municipal Court
that are collected shall be deposited in the city's general fund.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.11 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   The findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of Wayne County and the provisions of the
Administrative Review Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.), and all
amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto,
are adopted and shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review
of the final findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under this
chapter.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.12 COLLECTION OF UNPAID FINES, SANCTIONS OR COSTS; JUDGMENT ON THE
FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) shall be a debt due and owing the
city and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) may be sought
for a final determination of the general ordinance violation, the city may
commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of Wayne County for purposes of
obtaining a judgment of the findings, decision and order against a person in
such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the city shall file a
certified copy of the findings, decision, and order, which shall be accompanied
by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision, and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and the
applicable state laws. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be
by any method provided by ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203 or by certified mail,
return receipt requested; provided that the total amount of fines, other
sanctions, and costs imposed by the findings, decision, and order does not
exceed $2,500. If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision, and order
was entered in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the
applicable state law and that the respondent had an opportunity for a hearing
under this chapter and for judicial review as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the city and against
the respondent for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and order,
plus court costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced
in the same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money; and
      (2)   The court may also issue such other orders and injunctions as are
requested by the city to enforce the order of the hearing officer to correct an
ordinance violation.
(Ord. 20-0609-215, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 40.13 COLLECTING UNPAID MUNICIPAL FINES AND COSTS AND ESTABLISHING MANDATORY
COURT APPEARANCES.
   (A)   Money judgements entered into municipal court shall be collected in
the same manner as the City of Fairfield collects money due for its utilities.
   (B)   Starting May 1, 2021, any unpaid balance on a judgement entered in
municipal court shall be put on the utility bill for the defendant who owes
money to the city for a judgement entered in municipal court. In the event that
the utility bill plus the unpaid balance on the municipal court judgement is
not paid, the applicable utility service shall be disconnected in the same
manner as disconnection for an unpaid utility bill.
   (C)   Municipal court defendants must appear in municipal court if he or she
has a second or subsequent ordinance violation within any 12-month period.
(Ord. 21-0413-251, passed 4-13-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
52.   GAS UTILITY
      
53.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
      
54.   WATER
      
55.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Termination of Utility Service for Nonpayment of Bills
   
50.01   Notice of delinquent account
   
50.02   Weather conditions
   
50.03   Delivery and records
Interference with Utility Meters by Dogs or Other Animals
   
50.15   Unlawful to leash or tie to meters
   
50.16   Unlawful to harbor a dog or animal in an enclosed area near meter
   
50.17   Termination of service
Utility Billing Errors
   
50.35   Definitions
   
50.36   Under-billing
   
50.37   Over-billing
   
50.38   Appeal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Collection policy in general, see §
36.003
TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT OF BILLS
§ 50.01 NOTICE OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNT.
   If the bill of any city utility customer shall remain delinquent, the City
Collector shall give written notice of delinquent account to the utility
customer and the owner of the property served, if not the utility customer,
that the city utility service shall be terminated for failure to pay for the
utility services provided by the city at least seven days before the city
utility service is proposed to be terminated. The written notice of delinquent
account shall specifically inform the customer and/or owner of the following
and shall be in the form as determined by the City Collector and contain the
following information:
   (A)   The amounts past due and that city utility services will be terminated
unless arrangements to pay that amount are made with the City Collector;
   (B)   The customer and/or owner may contact the City Collector during normal
business hours to protest the proposed termination;
   (C)   The applicable disconnection and reconnection charges which will
apply; and
   (D)   The date upon which the utility service is proposed to be terminated
by the city.
(1986 Code, § 2.03.010) (Ord. 1433, passed - -1995)
§ 50.02 WEATHER CONDITIONS.
   Gas service or electric service to a residential customer shall in no event
be discontinued for nonpayment of bills when the Evansville, Indiana, national
weather forecast for the following 24 hours forecasts the temperature to be
20°F or lower, or on any day preceding a holiday or weekend when a forecast
indicates the temperature will be 20°F or below, during the holiday or weekend.
(1986 Code, § 2.03.020) (Ord. 1433, passed - -1995)
§ 50.03 DELIVERY AND RECORDS.
   All written notices or written findings to the utility customer and/or owner
of the property served shall be deemed delivered to and received by the
customer and/or owner of the property served when deposited in the United
States mail, first class, addressed to the utility customer and/or owner of the
property served, at his or her address as it appears on the records of the
office of the City Collector, with postage thereon prepaid.
(1986 Code, § 2.03.030) (Ord. 1433, passed - -1995)
INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITY METERS BY DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS
§ 50.15 UNLAWFUL TO LEASH OR TIE TO METERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to tie or leash
any dog or other animal to any water meter, electric meter, utility pole or
other water or electricity or service equipment or facilities of the city water
and electric distribution systems.
(Ord. 08-0812-06, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 UNLAWFUL TO HARBOR A DOG OR ANIMAL IN AN ENCLOSED AREA NEAR METER.
   It is further unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer
(collectively hereinafter referred to as the “customer”) to harbor a dog or
other animal in an enclosed or fenced area within which lies the city water
meter or electric meter or water or electric service connections of the city
with its customers, where the dog or other animal shall interfere with the city
water and electric system personnel reading meters or maintaining the water and
electric distribution facilities. The customer may be allowed to maintain an
enclosed or fenced area for their dog or animal, if the customer, at the
customer’s own cost, installs or has installed a utility meter that may be read
remotely. However, all authorized agents or employees of the city shall still
have free access to the customer’s premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of performing maintenance work, examining, inspecting, repairing,
replacing, exchanging, testing or removing meters or other equipment.
(Ord. 08-0812-06, passed 8-12-2008; Ord. 22-0823-295, passed 8-23-2022)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall have the right to terminate water and/or electric service to
any person, firm, corporation or customer who shall violate any provision of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-0812-06, passed 8-12-2008)
UTILITY BILLING ERRORS
§ 50.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVER-BILLING. Such alleged costs and expenses, which have been billed to the
customer, but which have not been incurred by the city.
   UNDER-BILLING. Such costs and expenses incurred by the city, which have not
been billed to the customer, and which results in a loss of revenue to the
city.
(Ord. 22-1011-313, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 50.36 UNDER-BILLING.
   (A)   Waterworks and sewerage utility. In cases of under-billing for
waterworks and sewerage utilities, the city may bill and collect such under-
billed amounts within 12 months after such service is provided to a residential
customer; and may collect such under-billed amounts within 24 months after such
service is provided to a non-residential customer. However, the city may bill
for unpaid amounts that were billed to a customer if the customer was notified
that there was an unpaid amount for service that was supplied to them before
January 1, 2016.
   (B)   Electric and gas utility. In cases of under-billing for electric and
gas utilities, the city may bill and collect such under-billed amounts within
36 months after such service is provided to a customer.
   (C)   The city will negotiate with the customer (on an under-billed account)
for a payment arrangement, which shall consist of monthly payments to the city.
(Ord. 22-1011-313, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 50.37 OVER-BILLING.
   In such cases where an over-billing on a utility account has occurred, the
city will refund or credit the entire amount for which the city can prove has
been over-billed. Such refund or credit shall be made within 30 days of the
discovery, by the city, of the over-billing.
(Ord. 22-1011-313, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 50.38 APPEAL.
   Any customer who disagrees with how an under-billing or over-billing
decision has been handled by the city, shall have the right to appeal such
decision. Such appeal must be in writing and must legibly state with
specificity the errors allegedly made by the city. Such appeal must be made
within five business days of the decision made by the city. Such appeal shall
be heard by the City Council at its next available City Council meeting.
(Ord. 22-1011-313, passed 10-11-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Establishment of utility
   
51.02   Under direction and control of Board of Health
   
51.03   Provisions for an annual appropriation and a tax levy
Fees and Charges
   
51.15   Fee imposed on each residential household
   
51.16   Payment of bills; nonpayment of bills
   
51.17   Definition of residential household
   
51.18   Rate adjustments
Garbage and Refuse
   
51.30   Definitions
   
51.31   Uncovered garbage
   
51.32   Wind-blown refuse
   
51.33   Deposits on streets
   
51.34   Consent of owner
   
51.35   Disposal
   
51.36   Prima facie evidence of violation
Covered Electronic Devices
   
51.45   Definition
   
51.46   Disposal in garbage prohibited
   
51.47   Disposal at Career Development Center prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF UTILITY.
   There is hereby established a garbage collection and disposal system in the
city which shall be operated by the city as a governmental function in its
corporate capacity, or by contract as the Council may from time to time by
resolution determine.
(1986 Code, § 10.02.010) (Ord. 517, passed 3-17-1942)
§ 51.02 UNDER DIRECTION AND CONTROL OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Until otherwise directed by resolution, the collection and disposal of
garbage in the city shall be under the direction and control of the Board of
Health Committee, and the Committee shall cause the garbage in the city to be
collected and disposed, either as a governmental function by the city, or by
contract as the Council may from time to time by resolution determine or
direct.
(1986 Code, § 10.02.020) (Ord. 517, passed 3-17-1942)
§ 51.03 PROVISIONS FOR AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATION AND A TAX LEVY.
   The Council of the city, in its annual appropriation and levy ordinances,
shall annually appropriate the amount sufficient to cover the cost of
collection and disposal of garbage in the city, and annually levy a tax to
raise money to cover the cost, not in excess, however, of the amount authorized
by law. The tax when so collected shall be in addition to the amount authorized
to be levied for general purposes.
(1986 Code, § 10.02.030) (Ord. 517, passed 3-17-1942)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 FEE IMPOSED ON EACH RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   Effective March 1, 2012, there shall be imposed, on each residential
household in the city, a charge which will be a per month charge for the
collection and removal of garbage, refuse and ashes within the city, which will
be sufficient to pay each residential household’s share of the total per month
contract price payable by the city to the independent garbage collection
contractor designated by the city for garbage collection within its city
limits. Establishment of this rate and any adjustment in the rate pursuant to
this section shall be by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
   (B)   EffectiveApril 1, 2023, there shall be imposed on each residential
household in the city a charge of $10 per month in addition to the rate imposed
for garbage collection. This additional charge will be for:
      (1)   A yard waste pick-up service, and an “over-flow garbage” pick-up
service which shall be provided by the city for each residential household in
the city; and
      (2)   An administrative fee to cover handling customer service issues
related to yard waste pick-up service, and for the “over-flow garbage” pick-up
service.
   (C)    For purposes of this section, the term OVER-FLOW GARBAGE means those
items that are refused to be picked up by the city's independent garbage
collection contractor, EXCEPT for the following items, which will not be picked
up by the city: construction material, tires, paint cans, TVs, VCRs, DVD/Blu
Rays, electronic entertainment playing devices, computers, computer tablets,
paint cans, any items deemed hazardous waste by either the United States EPA or
the Illinois EPA, and containers holding flammable liquids.
(1986 Code, § 10.04.010) (Ord. 1529, passed - -2000; Ord. 1668, passed 9-25-
2007; Ord. 10-0126-02, passed 1-26-2010; Ord. 12-0410-35, passed 4-10-2012;
Ord. 19-0924-185, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 23-0314-325, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 51.16 PAYMENT OF BILLS; NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   The charges for the garbage collection service shall be payable on the first
day of each month succeeding the month during which the services are furnished
or were available. If any charge is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month
in which it is due, a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added thereto
and collected therewith. The water supply, electric supply and gas supply may
be shut off from any premises for which the garbage collection bill remains
unpaid for a period of 20 days after the bill is rendered and mailed. This
shutoff of water, electricity and gas shall be in accordance with §§
50.01 through
50.03.
(1986 Code, § 10.04.020) (Ord. 1529, passed - -2000; Ord. 22-0412-282, passed
4-12-2022)
§ 51.17 DEFINITION OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, each living quarters for a separate
family shall constitute a separate RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD.
(1986 Code, § 10.04.030) (Ord. 956, passed 3-7-1972)
§ 51.18 RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The chief executive entity of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to execute on behalf of the City Council any decrease or increase in
garbage collection rates which result in the entering of the city into a
contractual agreement with the garbage collection entity. Furthermore, any
changes of service rates as a result of any existing garbage collecting
contract shall be reflected by an equal rate increase to be passed on to city
residential households in an amount equal to the increase or decrease in the
contractor’s rate for services rendered.
   (B)   The chief executive entity shall direct the City Collector to
implement the garbage collection decrease or increase in rates beginning on the
next service cycle whenever possible, but in any event no later than the
billing cycle immediately following the month in which the service rate change
was increased or decreased by the contractual agreement. The chief executive
entity shall direct the City Collector to add the charge of $10 per month for
the yard waste pick-up service and the over-flow garbage pick-up service to
each residential household customer's monthly utility service bill.
(1986 Code, § 10.04.040) (Ord. 1529, passed - -2000; Ord. 19-00924-185, passed
9-24-2019; Ord. 23-0725-335, passed 7-25-2023)
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 51.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; non-combustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish, including, but not
limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catchbasin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles; provided, refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid waste resulting from industrial
processes in manufacturing operations such as food-processing waste, boiler-
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, weeds, yard trimmings, leaves, tree branches, vines,
plant material, tree stumps and bushes, which shall be placed b the customer
near the road or alley.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.010) (Ord. 19-0924-185, passed 9-24-2019)
§ 51.31 UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage or other materials subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
excepting in a tightly covered metal container.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 WIND-BLOWN REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes or
trash of a material that it can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the city,
excepting in a covered container.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.030) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the city; provided
that this section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse or
ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this code preparatory to
having this material collected and disposed of in the manner provided in this
code.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.040) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 CONSENT OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any
premises in the city without the consent of the owner of the premises.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.050) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes
anywhere in the city excepting in an incinerator or disposal device, properly
constructed and operated or in a lawfully established garbage or refuse dump.
   (B)   This material not so properly disposed of shall be placed in
containers for collection by the city as prescribed in this code.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.060) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   The fact that garbage, refuse or ashes remain on any occupant’s premises in
the city in violation of this subchapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of the premises is responsible for the violation of this subchapter
occurring.
(1986 Code, § 5.14.080)
COVERED ELECTRONIC DEVICES
§ 51.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ELECTRONIC DEVICE or CED. Any computer, computer monitor,
television, printer, electronic keyboard, facsimile machine, video cassette
recorder, portable digital music player that has memory capacity and is battery
powered, digital video disc player, video game console, electronic mouse,
scanner, digital converter box, cable receiver, satellite receiver, digital
video disc recorder, or small scale server sold at retail and taken out of
service at a residence.
(Ord. 14-0923-79, passed 9-23-2014)
§ 51.46 DISPOSAL IN GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be illegal for any person, firm, corporation, limited liability
company, or other entity to dispose of any CED within the city by depositing a
CED in any container from which the city garbage service will collect contents,
or by leaving a CED at the curb for pickup by the city garbage service.
(Ord. 14-0923-79, passed 9-23-2014) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.47 DISPOSAL AT CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be illegal for any firm, person, corporation, limited liability
company, or any other entity to deposit a television or computer monitor in the
Career Development Center drop box or leave a television or computer monitor on
the Career Development Center property in the general location of the Career
Development Center drop box for donated personal property which is to be
reconditioned and sold at the New 2 You retail store operated by the Career
Development Center.
(Ord. 14-0923-79, passed 9-23-2014) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 52: GAS UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Established
   
52.002   Turning on
   
52.003   Application for natural gas service
   
52.004   Residential and commercial customers; service non-refundable fee
   
52.005   Installations, gas appliances and accessories
   
52.006   Service connections; fees
   
52.007   Discontinuance of service due to nonpayment or violation of this
chapter; reconnection fee
   
52.008   Reconnection charges
   
52.009   Unlawful interference of dogs and other animals with the gas system
belonging to the city
   
52.010   Testing of fuel gas piping
   
52.011   Appliances to be vented
   
52.012   Right of entry
   
52.013   Tampering
   
52.014   City not liable for interruption of service or supply
Service Pipes
   
52.025   Installation
   
52.026   Specifications
   
52.027   Repairs
   
52.028   Excavations
   
52.029   Service lines no longer in use
Meters; Rates; Receipts
   
52.040   Meters required
   
52.041   Installation of meters
   
52.042   Reading meters
   
52.043   Rates and charges
   
52.044   Rate schedule
   
52.045   Gas charge
   
52.046   Operating expense adjustment
   
52.047   Taxes
   
52.048   Definitions
   
52.049   City Council may impose special rates
   
52.050   Collection duty assigned
   
52.051   Payment of bills; nonpayment of bills
   
52.052   Moneys received; disposition; accounts; auditing
   
52.053   Lien
   
52.054   Foreclosure of lien
General Terms and Conditions of Service
   
52.065   Specifications for main and service connections
   
52.066   All service metered
   
52.067   Meters and the like to be open for inspection
   
52.068   Meter reading conclusive
   
52.069   Test of meters
   
52.070   Separate meters for each distinct building
   
52.071   Private lines; general rules and regulations
   
52.072   Regulations relative to customer’s piping, facilities and necessary
venting
   
52.073   City-owned equipment damaged
   
52.074   Tampering with parts of gas system belonging to city
   
52.075   Resale of gas prohibited
   
52.076   Extension policy; mains only
Transportation of End-User Customer-Owned Gas
   
52.090   Availability
   
52.091   Rates and charges generally
   
52.092   T-COG base monthly charge
   
52.093   Interstate transportation charges
   
52.094   Rate for all gas delivered under this rate
   
52.095   Installation charges
   
52.096   Late payment charges
   
52.097   Reimbursement for taxes or surcharges
   
52.098   Order of deliveries of gas
   
52.099   Nature of deliveries
   
52.100   Measurement of gas delivered by the city
   
52.101   Generally
   
52.102   Condition of service
   
52.103   Interruption of service
   
52.104   Delivery of gas at customer’s expense
   
52.105   Refusal of city to accept delivery
   
52.106   Two or more meters
   
52.107   Failure to comply
   
52.108   Service subject to future regulations
Contract with End-User Customer
   
52.120   Generally
   
52.121   Term
   
52.122   Measurement
   
52.123   Flow rates and pressure
   
52.124   Maximum daily delivery quantities
   
52.125   Estimates of monthly volumes
   
52.126   Third-party contracts to be provided to city
Protection of Natural Gas Facilities During and Following Construction
Excavation
   
52.140   Construction plan requirement
   
52.141   City observation at excavation site
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 ESTABLISHED.
   It is ordained by the City Council that the existing gas system shall be
owned and operated by the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.02.010) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.002 TURNING ON.
   No gas from the city gas supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the Superintendent of the Gas Department or an
employee authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.003 APPLICATION FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE.
   The service of the gas utility shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
occupant and the owner of the premises receiving the services, and shall be
deemed an obligation of both the occupant and the owner to any premises.
Application for new natural gas service shall be made in writing to the City
Collector, and shall contain an agreement by the applicants to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the city gas supply by applicants. The form of application for natural gas
service shall be as approved by the City Council. A fee of $150 shall be paid
at the time of application.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.020) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.004 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS; SERVICE NON-REFUNDABLE FEE.
   Prior to receiving city gas service, all residential and commercial gas
utility customers shall be required to make a service non-refundable fee
payment with the City Collector as required by §§
36.075 through
36.077 of the municipal code.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.030) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 20-1124-239, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 52.005 INSTALLATIONS, GAS APPLIANCES AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   Gas service may be refused for premises in which the installation does
not comply with the ordinances of this city.
   (B)   All service connections shall comply with the requirements of the
Federal and State Pipeline Safety Acts.
   (C)   All gas appliances and accessories connected to the city gas system
shall comply with the requirements of the current NFPA 54 edition.
   (D)   All piping shall be as required under §
52.071.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.040) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.006 SERVICE CONNECTIONS; FEES.
   (A)   All connections to the city gas utility system shall be made by the
city. The city shall charge for connecting three-fourths inch or smaller taps
to existing main the actual cost to the city for contractual labor and
materials regardless of the length of the service line required.
   (B)   Service lines and other fittings larger than those required for a
standard connection shall be paid for the applicant at the actual cost to the
city upon completion.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.050) (Ord. 1378, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-0812-05, passed 8-
12-2008)
§ 52.007 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE DUE TO NONPAYMENT OR VIOLATION OF THIS
CHAPTER; RECONNECTION FEE.
   Bills for gas service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent in
accordance with §
52.051. If any bill shall remain delinquent, then gas service shall be
discontinued and shall not be re-established except upon payment of all
delinquent bills, together with a delinquent reconnection charge (D.R.C.) of
$50.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.060) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 20-1124-238, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 52.008 RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   A reconnection charge shall be paid to the city to restore natural gas
service at any time that it has been disconnected or discontinued by voluntary
request of the customer.
   (B)   Disconnect and reconnection charges shall be paid to the city at any
time natural gas service has been disconnected or discontinued. A charge of $25
shall be paid as a disconnect charge (D.C.) and an additional $50 shall be paid
as the reconnection charge (R.C.). This shall apply to all customers under all
circumstances who voluntarily disconnect and reconnect to the city gas utility
services.
   (C)   Additionally, if service has been terminated for nonpayment of a
delinquent bill, the delinquent reconnection charge (D.R.C.) as stated in §
52.007 must also be paid.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.070) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 20-1124-238, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 52.009 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS WITH THE GAS SYSTEM
BELONGING TO THE CITY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to tie or
leash any dog or other animal to any meter, regulator, service pipe or other
gas service equipment or facilities of the city gas system.
   (B)   It is further unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer
(collectively hereinafter referred to as the “customer”) to harbor a dog or
other animal in an enclosed or fenced area within which lies the city gas meter
or gas service connections of the city with its customers where the dog or
other animal shall interfere with the city gas system personnel reading meters
or maintaining gas facilities. The customer may be allowed to maintain an
enclosed or fenced area for their dog or animal, if the customer, at the
customer’s own cost, installs or has installed a utility meter that may be read
remotely. However, all authorized agents or employees of the city shall still
have free access to the customer’s premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of performing maintenance work, examining, inspecting, repairing,
replacing, exchanging, testing or removing meters or other equipment.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to terminate gas service to any person,
firm or corporation or customer who shall violate any provision of this
section.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.075) (Ord. 1407, passed - -1993; Ord. 22-0823-295, passed 8-
23-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Interference with utility meters by dogs or other animals, see §§
50.15 through
50.17
§ 52.010 TESTING OF FUEL GAS PIPING.
   The fuel gas piping beyond the city meter must be tested by the customer’s
installer. The testing shall be done in accordance with the latest edition of
NFPA 54. The city may refuse to connect or reconnect any customer piping not so
tested and documented.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.080) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.011 APPLIANCES TO BE VENTED.
   All gas appliances except gas ranges and clothes dryers must be vented in
accordance with the latest revision of NFPA 54.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.100) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.012 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   All gas meters and gas fixtures, connections and appurtenances on private
property connected with the gas system of the city shall be open to the
inspection of the proper officers and employees of the city at all reasonable
hours or when necessary.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.130) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.013 TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the city gas system or any meter.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.140) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.014 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for any
operating reason. In all cases, where possible, a reasonable notice of the
circumstances will be given to the customers, but in an emergency or discovery
of an unsafe condition the gas may be shut off without notice. Necessary repair
or work will be made by the city as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall
not be held responsible or liable because of any shut off or discontinuance of
service for any direct or resultant damages to any person, company or customer.
   (B)   In the event of a discontinuance of gas service, the city will make
every attempt to safeguard the customer and service shall not be renewed until
the city authorities have purged the lines and put into service all automatic
controls and pilots. In no case shall the customer turn on his or her own
service. The purging of lines, relighting pilots and checking automatic
controls will be done by the city. Where the nature of the customer’s
operations are such that an interruption of service might create a hazard or
large economic loss, the customer shall provide facilities for standby service
at his or her discretion.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut off or interfered with by reasons of any street
improvements, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or inconvenience of any kind either to the
customers adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damages to
property due to the operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the city
without cost to the customer.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither ensure
nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages, direct or
indirect, by any reason, of any fire or any other cause, and all gas service
furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents,
fire, strikes, riots or any other cause.
   (E)   Any customer having a facility, operation, process or activity which
cannot under any or all conditions tolerate temporary interruption of gas
service shall provide an alternate source of on-site fuel or heat for
utilization during the interruption. The responsibility for this alternate
rests fully with the customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.04.150) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 1407, passed - -1993)
SERVICE PIPES
§ 52.025 INSTALLATION.
   All service pipes from the gas mains to the gas meter of premises served
shall be installed by the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.06.010) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.026 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Services shall be installed to conform to requirements of the Department of
Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PHMSA
office of Pipeline Safety Section 49 CFR Part 191, Part 192.
(1986 Code, § 9.06.020) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.027 REPAIRS.
   All repairs on service pipes from gas mains to the gas meter shall be made
by the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.06.030) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.028 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with requirements for notification through the statewide one-call
system shall be followed.
(1986 Code, § 9.06.040) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.029 SERVICE LINES NO LONGER IN USE.
   (A)   Whenever service lines for gas are permanently no longer in use, the
City Gas Department shall make a cut-off from the pipes at a point indicated by
the Superintendent of the Gas Department.
   (B)   The maximum period of time to declare non-use shall be 18 months
unless shortened by state or federal requirements.
(1986 Code, § 9.06.050) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
METERS; RATES; RECEIPTS
§ 52.040 METERS REQUIRED.
   All premises using the city gas supply must be equipped with an adequate gas
meter furnished by the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.041 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   Meters shall be installed in location that will be easily accessible and
designated by the Superintendent of the Gas Department.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.020) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.042 READING METERS.
   The city shall read every gas meter used in the city at those times as are
necessary that the bills may be sent out at the proper time.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.030) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.043 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The basic rates and charges for the use of gas service of the City Gas
Department of the city shall be established by the City Council by ordinance
and adjusted from time to time by resolution of the city as provided in this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.050) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.044 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   There shall be, and there are established, monthly rates and charges
for the sale of natural gas and for the use and service supplied by the natural
gas distribution systems of the city based upon the amount of gas consumed as
shown by the gas meters.
   (B)   (1)   The rates and charges are as follows:
 
General Service Rate
Facility charge                 $10 per month, per meter
Base rate for all gas delivered $1.0104 per Mcf
 
      (2)   Commencing April 1, 2023, for Year 1 (and on the first day of April
for each subsequent year) the monthly meter charges for gas meters (for each
meter) and for each subsequent corresponding Year, shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Gas Meter Charge
1    April 1, 2023   $17.00
2    April 1, 2024   $18.50
3    April 1, 2025   $20.00
4    April 1, 2026   $21.50
5    April 1, 2027   $23.00
 
   (C)   The gas charge is to be added to the above rates.
   (D)   The residential and commercial rates charged by the city for the sale
of natural gas shall be increased by 5% effective September 1, 2010. The 5%
increase in natural gas rates shall be calculated by using the natural gas
rates in force on August 1, 2010 as required by this section of the municipal
code. The adjusted rate is represented as follows:
 
Residential Gas for August 2010
$8.7146 x 5% = $0.44 per Mcf
 
   (E)   The residential and commercial rates charged by the city for the sale
of natural gas shall be increased by 5% effective March 1, 2011.
   (F)   The utility rates charged by the city for the sale of natural gas to
residential and commercial customers and the costs and expenses which are
incurred by the city shall be evaluated in December, 2011, and in December in
each and every year thereafter in order for the City Council to make a decision
about any utility rate increases which may be advisable.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.051) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 10-0126-02, passed 1-
26-2010; Ord. 10-0810-07, passed 8-10-2010; Ord. 20-0714-219, passed 7-14-2020;
Ord. 20-0728-221, passed 7-28-2020; Ord. 22-0726-291, passed 7-26-2022; Ord.
23-0228-324, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 52.045 GAS CHARGE.
   All natural gas charges per unit of volume shall include on each billing a
gas charge determined by a projection of the annual cost of gas to be
purchased, divided by the projected volume to be billed to the customers based
upon the last July through June year. The result shall be known as the gas
charge and shall be applied to each unit of gas delivered.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.052) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.046 OPERATING EXPENSE ADJUSTMENT.
   Any changes in operating costs (not including cost of gas or tax) shall be
passed uniformly and directly to all bills rendered after the determination has
been made by the City Council. The determination shall be made using the
current fiscal audit report. Changes in operating expenses shall be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Demonstrable changes identified in the fiscal reports of the city;
   (B)   Changes in wages, salaries, payroll or payroll expenses applicable
after they have been put into effect; and
   (C)   Direct and permanently continuing costs over which the city has no
control.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.053) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.047 TAXES.
   The state gas revenue tax and all other federal, state or local taxes, now
in force or which may be enacted, based upon the operations of, or revenue of,
the gas utility, shall be uniformly and directly applied to all consumer bills
for gas service in addition to other rates and charges provided in this chapter
for gas service.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.055) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.048 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply for
the purpose of gas billing by the city.
   Mcf. One thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
   THERM. Volumetrically as 100 cubic feet of natural gas.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.058) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.049 CITY COUNCIL MAY IMPOSE SPECIAL RATES.
   The City Council reserves the right to impose rates and charges by special
contract or agreement where gas is furnished under circumstances which make the
general service rates in effect inadequate, inappropriate or unworkable, and to
fix and impose special charges if interruptible service is given.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.060) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.050 COLLECTION DUTY ASSIGNED.
   It shall be the duty of the officials of the city diligently to collect the
charges imposed by this subchapter and to employ the proper means for the
collection thereof.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.070) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.051 PAYMENT OF BILLS; NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   The charges for gas service shall be payable on the first day of each
month, succeeding the month during which the service was furnished or was
available. If any charge is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month in which
it is due, a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added thereto and
collected therewith. The gas supply may be shut off from any premises for which
the gas bill remains unpaid for a period of 20 days after the bill is rendered
and mailed. When shut off, gas shall not be turned on except as provided in
52.008.
   (B)   The City Collector shall terminate gas utility service for nonpayment
of gas utility service pursuant to the notice and procedure as provided in §§
50.01 through
50.03.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.080) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 1433, passed - -1995;
Ord. 22-0412-282, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 52.052 MONEYS RECEIVED; DISPOSITION; ACCOUNTS; AUDITING.
   It shall be the duty of the City Collector to set up and maintain a proper
system of accounts and records separate from all other accounts and records,
showing the amount of revenues received from the gas utility. All moneys shall
be paid by the City Collector to the City Treasurer, who shall also keep an
account of moneys received from the gas utility and the application of revenues
and all financial transactions in connection therewith, and who shall deposit
the moneys in an enterprise fund account. The accounts shall annually be
audited properly by an independent public accountant as provided by the State
Municipal Accounting Act.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.090) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.053 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for gas shall be lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for gas service remains unpaid 60 days after it has
been rendered, the City Collector may file with the Recorder of the county a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for gas served
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of gas whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises, and the City Collector has notice of this, then notice shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the City
Collector, whenever the bills remain unpaid for a period of 60 days after it
has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the City Collector to record the lien claim or to mail
the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid gas bills as mentioned in the
following section.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.100) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.054 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid gas charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as in the case of the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
city.
   (B)   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute proceedings,
in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over these matters,
against any property for which gas bill has remained unpaid 60 days after it
has been rendered.
(1986 Code, § 9.08.110) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
Editor’s note:
   See McQuillin Mun. Corp. (3rd Ed.) 18.18 note 44, 35.37 through 35.38,
53.103 note 57.
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 52.065 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAIN AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The city does adopt the requirements of the Federal and State Pipeline
Safety Acts as its specification base. Gas service connections made to the
mains of the system of the city shall comply with requirements and regulations
set forth within the Pipeline Safety Acts and related Pipeline Safety
Standards.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.010) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.066 ALL SERVICE METERED.
   (A)   No free gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall
be nondiscriminatory, provided that the Council reserves the right to impose
special rates and charges where particular circumstances render the regular
rates inadequate or unjust. If the city would elect to supply itself with gas
for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged against the city and
payment made from the funds thereof to the Gas Fund.
   (B)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of standard design and may
be of the diaphragm, rotary or turbine type properly used at the discretion of
the city’s Utilities Superintendent. The measurement pressure base shall be
seven inches water column. The temperature base shall be 60°F.
   (C)   Estimated meter readings shall not be used, excepting in the case of
meter failure or proven inaccuracy, and then only in accordance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Monthly accounting for all metered gas compared to gas purchases shall
be done by the Utility Clerk and reported in writing to the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.020) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 1407, passed - -1993)
§ 52.067 METERS AND THE LIKE TO BE OPEN FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at the time for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings. Indoor installations are prohibited.
   (B)   All meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures and appurtenances connected
to the system and located on private property shall be open for inspection by
the proper officers or employees of the city. Any part found to be defective or
not in compliance with the provisions of this section shall be immediately
repaired or corrected. Service may be discontinued without notice at any time
when conditions of the privately owned facilities create danger or hazard or
are found not in compliance with other sections in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.021) (Ord. 1407, passed - -1993)
§ 52.068 METER READING CONCLUSIVE.
   (A)   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by
the meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the fault of the city shall be
included under the liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive provided
that when a meter is found to have a positive average error (i.e., is fast) in
excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city shall
refund to the customer an amount equal to the excess charged for the gas
incorrectly metered, for a period equal to one-half of the time elapsed since
the last previous test, but not to exceed six months. No part of a minimum of
facility charge will be refunded.
   (B)   When a meter is found to have a negative average error, (i.e., is
slow) in excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city
may make a charge to the customer for the gas incorrectly metered for a period
equal to one-half of the time elapsed since the last previous test, but not to
exceed six months.
   (C)   If a meter is found not to register or partially register for any
period, the city shall estimate the charge for the gas used by averaging the
amounts registered over similar periods, preceding or subsequent thereto, or
over corresponding periods in previous years, all of which shall recognize
weather conditions and degree day deficiencies. This action shall be taken only
in cases and substantial importance where the city is not at fault for allowing
the incorrect meter to be in service.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.030) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.069 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter then in use on his or her premises. These tests will be made by the
city. The consumer shall be required to deposit with the city the sum of $25
for a meter having a capacity of 415 cfh or less. Larger meters shall be tested
at actual total cost of the work.
   (B)   In the event a meter is found by testing to register incorrectly at
20% full capacity, by more than 2% fast or slow as stated in §
52.068, then another meter shall be substituted and the test deposit shall be
refunded. Past gas bills shall be adjusted by refund or credit of the
percentage of the amount of the gas bills for a period of not more than six
months previous to the test as prescribed in this chapter.
   (C)   In the event that the meter is found to be within the limits and
registered correctly, the consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and the funds
shall be deposited in the gas operating funds of the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.031) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.070 SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT BUILDING.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any gas service line or
transmit gas applied by the natural gas system of the city into more than one
distinct building from one meter. A garage or similar outbuilding shall be
considered a distinct building. Each dwelling unit in apartment buildings or
duplex dwellings shall be serviced by individual meters. The City Council shall
have the right to establish special services or service connections as may be
necessary or desired for large users or for the convenience of the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.040) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992; Ord. 1407, passed - -1993)
§ 52.071 PRIVATE LINES; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No additional connections shall be made with any private line or
customer-owned line. Private service lines or customer-owned extensions of
service are prohibited.
   (B)   The city shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal or
replacement of any pipe, fixture or apparatus which is considered to be faulty,
inadequate or hazardous; provided, however, that this provision shall not
obligate the city in any way or manner. The cost of the above work shall be
fully borne by the property owner. The city shall have the right to refuse or
to discontinue gas service without notice to a customer if the city finds any
installed apparatus or appliances which would be detrimental to the efficient
operation of the existing facilities under the latest revision of NFPA 54.
   (C)   All persons, firms, corporations and customers are strictly forbidden
to attach any electrical ground wire to any fixture or piping which is or may
be connected to any gas service pipe, meter or main belonging to the city. The
city will hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage
to its property or injury to the employees of the city caused by the ground
wire. Any and all customers, persons, firms or corporations shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately; and if the ground wires are not removed
after a 24-hour written notice, the city, through its officials, may enter the
property and remove the ground wires and the customer shall pay all costs.
   (D)   All questions and complaints shall be made in writing to the Gas
Department of the city for the proper investigation. The Department shall make
a report to be filed with the City Clerk and reported by the Clerk to the City
Council at the next regular meeting. All employees of the city are strictly
forbidden to demand or accept any tips, gratuity or other personal compensation
for any service whatsoever rendered during working hours.
   (E)   Any customer-owned lines which are required to be operated and
maintained by the city shall be subject to a monthly charge covering operation
and maintenance. The charge shall be an additional monthly amount equal to the
facility charge in effect at the time of billing.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.050) (Ord. 1407, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMER’S PIPING, FACILITIES AND NECESSARY
VENTING.
   (A)   The responsibility of the city for maintenance and safety of natural
gas piping terminates at the outside residential wall in accordance with state
law.
   (B)   (1)   All house or mobile home piping shall be of rigid construction.
The pipe from the outlet of the meter shall be of black iron pipe of not less
than one inch inside diameter and shall enter the outside vertical house wall
or mobile home skirt. The pipe shall be secured or anchored by means of
suitable metal strap or clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from the meter
outlet and shall be fastened to the wall at intervals sufficient to make the
piping rigid throughout. All piping from the meter shall be securely fastened
so that the pipe will not turn when fittings are installed at the meter. The
final tie-in of the gas line to the meter shall be made by the city.
      (2)   Gas will not be turned on to any customer manifold that has not
been first air tested for leakage at ten psig or more by the applicant, or his
or her agent, and subsequently checked by the city. Testing must be done as a
completed system. No partial or temporary service is permitted. Customer
connections between the meter and the outside residential wall are prohibited
excepting for individual lines to serve gas grills or gas lights. All tests
must be held for observation by a city gas employee.
   (C)   The city does herewith adopt as its rules and regulations the safety
practices set forth by the National Fire Protection Association, in the latest
revision of the National Fuel Gas Code, NFPA 54, as though those provisions
were fully repeated and set forth herein so far as they are not inconsistent
with this chapter. In the event of conflict, the more restrictive language
shall apply. NFPA 54 is the National Fuel Gas Code. Any person, firm or
corporation installing fuel gas piping or appliances within the gas service
area of the city shall avail themselves of the Code prior to the undertaking of
any installation and shall follow it.
   (D)   No surface may be constructed or placed over a gas service line or
main which may produce a seal to a building wall or foundation or which may
obstruct ready access for repair or replacement.
   (E)   All buried natural gas piping facilities owned or served by the city
and distribution appurtenances shall conform to the latest revision of NFPA 54
and the Minimum Federal Pipeline Safety Standards, 49 C.F.R. pt. 192 as though
fully set forth herein. The minimum standards shall apply equally to private
buried facilities and distribution appurtenances. No natural gas piping may be
placed or remain beneath any building or sealed surface except in a specified
vented casing.
   (F)   No meter, regulator or any part of a city-owned meter setting may be
painted or otherwise coated by a customer without written approval of the Gas
Superintendent on a case-by-case basis. Special coatings are required to
prevent shorting of insulators.
   (G)   The city shall not approve customer piping, which as used herein means
piping beyond the outlet of the meter. The city may refuse connection or
discontinue service upon discovering any conditions which may be in violation
of this section or which may create any type of safety hazard, including
venting.
   (H)   (1)   Heating plants and water heaters shall be connected to gas
piping with rigid pipe, excepting where an AGA-listed flexible connector is
approved by the manufacturer as part of its installation design.
      (2)   Sweat fittings shall not be used anywhere in the gas piping.
   (I)   (1)   All gas conversion burners to be installed shall be AGA-listed
and approved. All designed heating plants shall be AGA-listed and approved and
the manufacturer’s recommendations for the installation shall be followed.
      (2)   No conversion burner shall be installed in any old or ineffective
furnace or a boiler which is in poor repair. Test for leakage shall be
conducted by the installer in an approved manner before placing a conversion
burner in a warm-air heating plant.
   (J)   No alteration, repair, adjustment, customer relighting, any appliance
work or piping work shall be done by city forces beyond the outlet of the meter
except to the extent that it may be required for purposes of safety only. This
prohibition shall apply to L.P. conversions.
   (K)   (1)   No unvented gas appliances excepting kitchen ranges, clothes
dryers and refrigerators may be installed or operated within the city.
      (2)   Safety shut-off devices to protect either supply gas or venting
failure shall be installed and subsequently tested for proper operation by the
installer. Written documentation of the test may be requested. These devices
shall be used when approved for or furnished with new heating equipment.
   (L)   Decorative or supplementary appliances shall be properly vented in
accordance with the NFPA 54. These include but are not limited to gas logs and
gas log lighters. At any time those units are installed in wood burning
fireplaces, special action must be taken for permanent modification of the flue
damper. Positive assurance must be provided that the damper cannot be fully
closed. A permanent hole must be cut or a positive stop attached even if the
unit has a safety pilot. The size of this opening shall be in accordance with
the table in NFPA 54 titled Free Opening Area of Chimney Damper for Venting
Flue Gases from Unlisted Decorative Appliances for Installation in Vented
Fireplaces. All other provisions for safety must be observed.
   (M)   The city shall be notified of any changes or alterations, remodeling
or reconstruction affecting gas piping in any building, house or grounds. This
shall be done using a new application for gas service or by amending an
existing application.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.051) (Ord. 1407, passed - -1993)
§ 52.073 CITY-OWNED EQUIPMENT DAMAGED.
   (A)   Whenever a meter, regulator or other equipment of a service connection
which has been installed by the city is found to have been damaged for any
cause whatsoever, these damages shall become the liability of the customer, who
shall pay the city the actual cost of removal, repairing and/or replacing of
the damaged equipment where damage was not caused by the city.
   (B)   In the event the damage has caused inaccurate metering, then the gas
bills shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.060) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.074 TAMPERING WITH PARTS OF GAS SYSTEM BELONGING TO CITY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to break
the seal of any meter or in any manner to make any alterations, changes or
repairs on the same or to open any mains, laterals, service pipe, stop cocks,
valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work
on either or any of them without authority from the city or its properly
authorized agent.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section or
who shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property connected with
the gas system of the city shall be subject to the penalty hereinafter
prescribed in §
52.999.
   (C)   Tampering shall include any type of confinement, enclosure, covering
over, surface sealing or changing of the environment relative to any parts of
the gas system or equipment of the city.
   (D)   Tampering shall become the liability of the customer, who shall pay
the city the actual cost of removal, repairing and/or replacing equipment or
material.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.070) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.075 RESALE OF GAS PROHIBITED.
   No gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made and
gas installed.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.080) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
§ 52.076 EXTENSION POLICY; MAINS ONLY.
   (A)   (1)   Extension of mains and service outside of the city limits shall
be subject to approval of the Council and shall also be subject to all of the
rules and regulations and provisions as provided in this chapter or as may be
amended.
      (2)   All mains, lines and equipment shall immediately become the
property of the city.
   (B)   Where main installation is desired when funds for extensions are not
available and/or when the distance is in excess of 100 feet per customer noted
above, the extension can be made if the applicant will deposit with the city
the estimated cost of making the extension, less 100 feet when funds are
available, or the entire amount when funds are not available. The amounts so
deposited shall be refunded to the customer or customers at the rate of $0.80
per Mcf annually, until the total deposit has been refunded, or until eight
annual payments have been made, whichever event occurs first. The deposit shall
be interest-free. In the event that the amount deposited is greater or less
than the actual cost of the extension, the excess or deficiency shall be
corrected prior to giving service.
   (C)   The above applies to mains. See §
52.006 for service lines.
(1986 Code, § 9.10.090) (Ord. 1374, passed - -1992)
TRANSPORTATION OF END-USER CUSTOMER-OWNED GAS
§ 52.090 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Transportation under the rates specified in this chapter is available
to any applicable large commercial or industrial end-user customer:
      (1)   Having a proven natural gas requirement of more than 50,000 Mcf per
meter annually;
      (2)   Who has executed a written contract for deliveries hereunder at
specifically identified points of metering; and
      (3)   Who has arranged for the delivery of end-user customer-owned gas to
the Trunkline Gas Company system for the purpose of service under the contract.
   (B)   The rate is not available to any customer for transportation of
intrastate gas.
   (C)   The rate is available only on the basis of separate and distinct
meters.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.010) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.091 RATES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Rates and charges payable monthly under this rate shall be as follows in §§
52.092 through
52.094.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.020) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.092 T-COG BASE MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The T-COG base monthly charge shall be $50 per meter each month during the
term or extension of the contract.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.021) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.093 INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION CHARGES.
   All costs of any nature or type for or related to interstate transportation
in advance of the city’s point of receipt shall be paid by the end-user
customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.022) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.094 RATE FOR ALL GAS DELIVERED UNDER THIS RATE.
   The rate for all gas delivered shall be the amount per Mcf computed as the
net of the total rate chargeable under the applicable customer companion
classification rate less the applicable Trunkline SG-1 raw rate. The charges
for gas delivered shall include, but not be limited to, the ordinance companion
classification rate which may include facility charge, interruptible natural
gas rate, net rate, base rate, operating expense adjustment, gas charge and/or
any other applicable charges or credits as the City Council shall provide by
ordinance from time to time. Taxes or surcharges will apply as stated in §
52.097.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.023) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.095 INSTALLATION CHARGES.
   (A)   The customer shall pay or reimburse the city prior to the initiation
of service under this chapter for additional recording charts, instruments,
meters or other facilities required for the city to:
      (1)   Take end-user customer-owned gas into its system; and
      (2)   Record daily quantities of gas delivered to the end-user customer
hereunder at each meter so designated.
   (B)   If the city assesses other costs such as legal, engineering and
administrative expenses in connection with the delivery to the end-user
customer, these shall also be paid in advance.
   (C)   Amounts shall be determined by the city, billed to and paid by the
end-user customer prior to making any deliveries.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.030) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.096 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   A charge for late payment shall be determined under the same provisions
applicable under city ordinance at the time of occurrence.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.040) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.097 REIMBURSEMENT FOR TAXES OR SURCHARGES.
   In addition to all other charges, the end-user customer shall reimburse the
city for any current or retroactive taxes or surcharges which the city may be
required to pay or be obligated to collect from the end-user customer in
respect of service hereunder. The city will bill the end-user customer monthly
or retroactively for any taxes. They shall include but not be limited to the
State Gas Revenue Tax and the Gas Research Institute (GRI) surcharge.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.050) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.098 ORDER OF DELIVERIES OF GAS.
   (A)   For billing purposes, gas taken by an end-user customer in any billing
period at the point of metering for this rate shall be deemed to be taken in
the following order:
      (1)   The quantity of end-user customer-owned gas delivered to the city’s
system in the current billing period;
      (2)   Any excess or “balance” quantity of end-user customer-owned gas
previously delivered to the city’s system but not taken by the end-user
customer during the billing period immediately preceding the current billing
period; and
      (3)   The quantity of gas delivered under the companion classification.
   (B)   Any excess or balance quantity not taken by the end-user customer in
the first subsequent billing period shall be forfeited to the city without
recourse and at no cost to the city.
   (C)   No balance shall be carried for more than 30 days following the close
of a month.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.060) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.099 NATURE OF DELIVERIES.
   Deliveries of gas under this rate are subject to full interruption. The city
shall be the sole judge of the necessity for interruption. The city will
endeavor to give end-user customers advance notice whenever an interruption is
required, and the customer shall interrupt his or her use of the end-user
customer-owned gas for the time and to the extent requested by the city. The
city shall not be liable for any loss of production or for any damages
whatsoever by reason of interruption or lack of advance notice. The city will
endeavor to deliver gas under the companion rate classification to the extent
of the then current entitlement of the end-user customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.070) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.100 MEASUREMENT OF GAS DELIVERED BY THE CITY.
   The gas delivered by the city under this chapter shall be measured in
accordance with the then current tariff of the Trunkline Gas Company. It will
include Btu values, pressure and temperature compensation, and chart recording
of volumes delivered on a daily basis through each end-user meter.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.080) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.101 GENERALLY.
   The terms and conditions of service set forth in §§
52.102 through
52.107 are in addition to the current city ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.100) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.102 CONDITION OF SERVICE.
   Service will be provided hereunder whenever and to the extent that end-user
customer-owned gas has been delivered for the end-user customer by the
Trunkline system in accordance with the contract between the end-user customer
and the city under this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.101) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.103 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   In the event of an interruption or curtailment of deliveries of end-user
customer-owned gas supply to the city, the city will attempt to make up any
deficiency in the supply to the extent of end-user customer entitlement. This
make-up service will be made available to the end-user customer under the
companion classification, to the same extent it would be available to the end-
user customer absent service under this rate, excepting in the event of
transportation of end-user customer-owned gas being the direct cause of
curtailment or reduction in gas entitlements from the city’s sole pipeline
supplier, Trunkline. Should historical purchase volumes under the companion
classification become the basis for Trunkline entitlements, then the end-user
customer will be provided the make-up service only to the extent of the volume
to which he or she is entitled. Loss of entitlements shall be the risk of the
end-user customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.102) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.104 DELIVERY OF GAS AT CUSTOMER’S EXPENSE.
   The delivery of end-user customer-owned gas by the end-user customer to the
city’s distribution system shall be fully at the end-user customer’s expense in
accordance with the contract entered into between the city and the end-user
customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.103) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.105 REFUSAL OF CITY TO ACCEPT DELIVERY.
   The city will not be obligated to accept delivery of any end-user customer-
owned gas if the acceptance is in any way detrimental to or at the subsidy of
other customers of the city. Refusal to accept delivery shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.104) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.106 TWO OR MORE METERS.
   The summation of the consumptions registered by two or more meters at the
points of end-user customer metering under this rate shall not be permitted
except as a matter of convenience to the city, as determined solely by the
city.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.105) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.107 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the end-user customer, his or her agents, sellers, brokers, marketers,
shippers, transporters, suppliers or producers shall fail to comply with or
perform any of the conditions or obligations on the end-user customer’s part,
to be complied with or performed under the contract entered into between him or
her and the city hereunder, and if after the failure the city shall deliver at
the end-user customer’s local premises, addressed to him or her a written
notice of its intention to terminate service hereunder on account of the
failure, then the city shall have the right to terminate service at the
expiration of ten days after the giving of the notice, unless within those ten
days the end-user customer shall fully make good the failure. The termination
of service for any cause shall not release the end-user customer from the
obligation to make payment of any amount or amounts due or to become due in
accordance with the terms of his or her contract with the city hereunder or
under other conditions provided by city ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.106) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.108 SERVICE SUBJECT TO FUTURE REGULATIONS.
   Service is subject to any current or future ordinances, rules or regulations
of the city pertaining to natural gas service and not in direct conflict with
this rate or the contract between the city and the end-user customer.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.110) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
CONTRACT WITH END-USER CUSTOMER
§ 52.120 GENERALLY.
   The following §§
52.121 through
52.126 pertain to contracts with end-user customers.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.090) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.121 TERM.
   The contract entered into between the city and an end-user customer
hereunder shall continue for a mutually agreed initial term of not to exceed
two years from the effective date thereof, and extension terms not to exceed a
year-to-year term thereafter, subject to the right of either party to terminate
the same at the end of the initial term or of any extension term thereof by
written notice to the other given not less than 30 days prior to the date of
the intended termination. No third party shall have any rights under this
contract.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.091) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.122 MEASUREMENT.
   The contract between the city and the end-user customer shall provide for
the measurement of end-user customer-owned gas delivered to the city only
through the Fairfield-Trunkline M&R City Gate north of Sims, Illinois, the
point of receipt for the city, with quality meeting Trunkline’s specifications.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.092) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.123 FLOW RATES AND PRESSURE.
   The flow rate(s) of delivery of gas transported for any end-user customer
hereunder and the pressure at which the gas is to be delivered shall be agreed
upon by the city and the end-user customer and specified in the contract
between them or if not an end-user customer at current service conditions for
flow and pressure.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.093) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.124 MAXIMUM DAILY DELIVERY QUANTITIES.
   The contract between the city and the end-user customer shall specify the
maximum daily delivery quantities of end-user customer-owned gas. Trunkline
will provide the daily delivery data to the city for all end-user customer-
owned gas delivered to the city’s distribution system. Their determination
shall be binding upon the end-user customer. Delivery statements for end-user
account must be delivered to the city by the end-user customer by the tenth of
each subsequent month.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.094) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.125 ESTIMATES OF MONTHLY VOLUMES.
   The end-user customer must also provide the city with estimates of monthly
volumes to be transported. These estimates must be made available before
September 1 of each year or before deliveries begin.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.095) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
§ 52.126 THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTS TO BE PROVIDED TO CITY.
   The end-user customer will furnish the city with copies of all third-party
contracts relating to service hereunder, including all amendments thereof in
effect from time to time. Prior to the sixteenth of each month, the end-user
customer will notify the city in writing of the volumes of gas in decatherms to
be transported on a daily basis in the subsequent month. This will be converted
to or expressed as average daily flow. The end-user customer must request and
receive approval of the city two working days in advance of any mid-month
changes. They must be confirmed in writing immediately.
(1986 Code, § 9.15.096) (Ord. 1316, passed - -1988)
PROTECTION OF NATURAL GAS FACILITIES DURING AND FOLLOWING CONSTRUCTION
EXCAVATION
§ 52.140 CONSTRUCTION PLAN REQUIREMENT.
   All plans for construction work within the city limits which provide for any
excavation of the construction work site must include the general location of
all natural gas service lines and mains which cross the construction site or
are located within ten feet of the outer limits of the proposed construction
excavation. The excavation shall include, but not be limited to, trenching. All
excavation shall be done according to J.U.L.I.E. rules and regulations
(Illinois Underground Utility Facilities Damage Prevention Act, ILCS Ch. 220,
Act, 50 §§ 1 through 14).
(1986 Code, § 9.20.010) (Ord. 1332, passed - -1988)
§ 52.141 CITY OBSERVATION AT EXCAVATION SITE.
   A qualified employee of the city’s gas utility may be present at the site of
any excavation occurring within ten feet of any gas service line or other gas
facility.
(1986 Code, § 9.20.060) (Ord. 1332, passed - -1988)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Established
   
53.002   Application for service
   
53.003   Residential and commercial customers; non-refundable fee
   
53.004   Wiring, electrical installation and equipment service
   
53.005   Service connection; fee
   
53.006   Fees to be charged for after hours calls
   
53.007   Repairs
   
53.008   Disconnection of service due to nonpayment; reconnection fee
   
53.009   Disconnection of service due to tampering with, altering or injuring
meter; reconnection fee
   
53.010   Interference
   
53.011   Resale of service
   
53.012   [Reserved]
   
53.013   Advertisement on electric light poles; driving metal into electric
light poles
   
53.014   Tampering
Meters; Rates
   
53.025   Meters required; charges
   
53.026   Installation of meters
   
53.027   Reading meters
   
53.028   [Reserved]
   
53.029   State utility tax
   
53.030   Service non-refundable fee
   
53.031   Security light installation and service fees
   
53.032   Distributed generation policy
Electric Service Rates
   
53.050   Definitions
   
53.051   Service charges
   
53.052   Meter fee
   
53.053   Payment of bills; nonpayment of bills
   
53.054   Lien
   
53.055   Foreclosure of lien
Three-Phase Circuit
   
53.070   Application for installation
   
53.071   Failure to report installation of motor or motors of additional
horsepower
   
53.072   Cost of reconnection
Cogeneration and Small Power Producing Facilities
   
53.085   Applications
   
53.086   Purchase of surplus energy by municipal electric utility
   
53.087   Sale of supplemental energy by municipal electric utility
   
53.088   Requirements for connection
   
53.089   Use of equipment suitable for parallel operation with municipal system
   
53.090   Inspection and testing
   
53.091   Right of municipal electric utility to curtail service
   
53.092   Installation and maintenance of equipment
   
53.093   Failure of performance
   
53.094   Meters
   
53.095   Liability
   
53.096   Rates
   
53.097   Rate changes
 
   
53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Service types
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 ESTABLISHED.
   It is ordained by the City Council that the existing electric system now
owned and operated by the city be included in a public utility and shall be
operated hereafter as a public utility.
(1986 Code, § 8.02.010)
§ 53.002 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Electric energy shall only be rendered after application for service from
the city electric distribution system from a prospective user shall be made to
the City Collector, who shall in turn refer the application to the
Superintendent of the Electric Distribution Department. The application shall
contain an agreement that applicant shall abide by and accept all of the
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the city electric
supply. Service shall then only be energized after inspection by the City
Superintendent. No fee shall be charged except as hereinafter provided. No
service shall be rendered unless proper metering has been installed.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.010)
§ 53.003 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS; SERVICE NON-REFUNDABLE FEE.
   Prior to receiving city electric service, all residential and commercial
electric utility customers shall be required to make an electric service non-
refundable fee with the City Collector as provided in §§
36.075 through
36.077.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.020) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 20-1124-239, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 53.004 WIRING, ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION AND EQUIPMENT SERVICE.
   Wiring, electrical installation and equipment service must be in accordance
with applicable electric codes and the rules of the city electric utility. The
utility reserves the right to refuse service to customers not in compliance
with this provision.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.030) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984)
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONNECTION; FEE.
   No charge shall be made for residential overhead electric service
connections, meters or installations. For underground or abnormal service
connections, the customer shall pay based upon the latest rate provided by the
bill provider.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.040) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984;
Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 53.006 FEES TO BE CHARGED FOR AFTER HOURS CALLS.
   When any service interruption has been experienced or a dangerous condition
may occur, calls shall be made through Wayne-White Counties Electric
Cooperative. The costs incurred to repair any part of a system, on the
customer’s side of the meter, or due to faults caused by the customer’s system,
shall be borne by the electric customer, provided the repair is necessitated
under emergency conditions. No repair on the customer’s system shall be made by
Wayne-White Counties Electric Cooperative personnel except when a dangerous
condition may exist that would endanger the health and welfare of an electric
user and cannot otherwise be remedied.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.050) (Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 53.007 REPAIRS.
   The user shall be responsible for all repairs on the customer’s side of the
meter loop, except for the meter itself.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.060) (Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 53.008 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE DUE TO NONPAYMENT; RECONNECTION FEE.
   If any bill is unpaid after the due date, the customer shall be considered
delinquent and service is subject to disconnection. A reconnection charge set
by the bill provider shall be paid by the delinquent customer before service is
restored.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.070) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1218, passed 5-24-
1983; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984; Ord. 20-1124-238, passed 11-24-2020; Ord. 22-
0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 53.009 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE DUE TO TAMPERING WITH, ALTERING OR INJURING
METER; RECONNECTION FEE.
   If any meter is discovered to have been tampered with, altered or injured,
the meter shall be removed immediately and service shall be discontinued. A
reconnection charge of $100 shall be paid by the applicant for service before
service is restored. Tampering with, altering or injuring a meter is defined to
include wiring the meter or meter base so as to cause the reading mechanism of
the meter to be inoperable or inaccurate.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.075)
§ 53.010 INTERFERENCE.
   Uses of electric service which cause disturbance on the electric
distribution system and interference with service to other customers will not
be allowed.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.080) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984)
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.011 RESALE OF SERVICE.
   Electric service taken under the rate schedules set forth in this chapter
shall not be resold.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.090) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984)
§ 53.012 [RESERVED].
§ 53.013 ADVERTISEMENT ON ELECTRIC LIGHT POLES; DRIVING METAL INTO ELECTRIC
LIGHT POLES.
   No person, persons, firm, company or corporation shall place any show bill,
poster, placards, signs, public notice or anything whatsoever upon the electric
light poles owned by the city, and no person, persons, firm, company or
corporation shall drive any nail, tack or any kind of metal of any kind
whatsoever into the electric light poles owned by the city.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.110) (Ord. 225, passed 4-9-1926) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.014 TAMPERING.
   It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to tamper with,
alter or injure any part of the city electricity distribution system, or any
meter thereon.
(1986 Code, § 8.04.120) Penalty, see §
53.999
METERS; RATES
§ 53.025 METERS REQUIRED; CHARGES.
   (A)   All premises using the city electric supply must be equipped with an
adequate electric meter furnished by the city, except that service may be
supplied by the city at a flat rate of charge until a meter may be installed.
   (B)   Commencing April 1, 2023, for Year 1 (and on the first day of April
for each subsequent year) the monthly meter charges for electric meters (for
each meter) and for each subsequent corresponding Year, shall be as follows:
Year Date Commencing Meter Charge
Year Date Commencing Meter Charge
1    April 1, 2023   $17.00
2    April 1, 2024   $18.50
3    April 1, 2025   $20.00
4    April 1, 2026   $21.50
5    April 1, 2027   $23.00
6    April 1, 2028   $24.50
7    April 1, 2029   $26.00
8    April 1, 2030   $27.50
9    April 1, 2031   $29.00
10   April 1, 2032   $30.50
 
(1986 Code, § 8.06.010) (Ord. 20-0714-219, passed 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-0728-221,
passed 7-28-2020; Ord. 22-0726-291, passed 7-26-2022; Ord. 23-0228-324, passed
2-28-2023)
§ 53.026 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easily accessible and
designated by the Superintendent of Electric Department or a member of the
Department in accordance with the drawings attached hereto and made a part of
this title. The property owner shall furnish and install the meter loop and
base.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.020)
§ 53.027 READING METERS.
   The inspector of meters shall read or cause to be read every electric meter
used in the city at times as are necessary that the bills may be sent out at
the proper time each month.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.030)
§ 53.028 [RESERVED].
§ 53.029 STATE UTILITY TAX.
   The current state utility tax applicable to nonexempt service rendered shall
be added to the monthly bills calculated under the rate schedules established.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.050) (Ord. 937, passed 5-18-1971; Ord. 1251, passed - -1984)
§ 53.030 SERVICE NON-REFUNDABLE FEE.
   Prior to receiving city electric service, all residential and commercial
electric utility customers shall be required to make an electric service non-
refundable fee payment with the City Collector as provided in §§
36.075 through
36.077.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.055) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 20-1124-239, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 53.031 SECURITY LIGHT INSTALLATION AND SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   If a city utility customer or an owner of real estate located in the
city or an owner of real estate on which city utilities are situated or an
owner of real estate which is near city utilities request the relocation of
gas, water, sewer, electric lines, or security lights, the party requesting the
relocation must reimburse the city for the cost of the relocation.
   (B)   If a security light is requested by a city electric utility customer,
the customer will be charged the city’s cost of the equipment necessary to
install the requested security light.
   (C)   The charge for a security light to city electric customers shall be
$13.20/month for the month or part of a month of installation, and $13.20/month
for each successive month, and shall be billed as part of the customer’s
electric utility bill.
   (D)   The charge for a 400w directional security light to city electric
customers shall be $20 per month and $20 per month for each successive month
and shall be billed as part of the customer’s electric utility bill.
(Ord. 11-0712-27, passed 7-12-2012; Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022; Ord.
22-0628-288, passed 6-28-2022; Ord. 22-0726-291, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 53.032 DISTRIBUTED GENERATION POLICY.
   (A)   The city shall make available, upon request, interconnection of
distributed generation to any customer taking service from the city and who
meets the requirements set forth in this policy. For purposes of this policy,
INTERCONNECTION OF DISTRIBUTED GENERATION means service to an electric customer
under which electric energy generated by that electric customer from an
eligible on-site generating facility owned by that customer and, under some
circumstances, delivered to the local distribution facilities, may be used to
offset electric energy provided by the electric utility to the electric
customer as provided for in this policy. For multi-unit residential and
commercial buildings, if all units are on the same account it qualifies as a
single customer for purposes of this policy. If individual units are separately
metered and individual tenants have individual accounts, then the term CUSTOMER
only refers to the building owner and any usage by the owner. The city cannot
be responsible to allocate renewable generation facilities to individual
accounts in a multi-unit residential or commercial building. Before the project
in-service date, customer must complete the Interconnection Application and
receive approval from the utility. Please see the Exhibit A attached to
Ordinance 23-1024-345, which is a form entitled “City of Fairfield Distributed
Generation Interconnection Application Form” and which is incorporated herein
by reference.
   (B)   For purposes of this policy an ELIGIBLE ON-SITE GENERATING FACILITY
shall be defined as a renewable generating facility, such as a photovoltaic
facility and small wind turbines, and may include technology to store renewable
energy at the customer’s premises. Other forms of renewable generation shall be
considered on a case-by-case basis. In all cases, facilities interconnected
must be deemed by the city to be renewable to qualify for this policy.
   (C)   The electric generating facility must also abide by city’s
interconnection policy currently in place at the time of installation to be an
eligible on-site generating facility.
   (D)   The eligible on-site generating facility shall be located on the
customer's premises and on the customer's side of the billing meter and be
sized to primarily produce only enough electricity to offset the customer's own
electrical requirements. Therefore, to be approved, a renewable generating
facility must be properly sized so as not to exceed the customers expected
annual usage based on the customer’s current energy needs. It is also important
to the customer that the generating facilities are properly sized because the
credits under this policy for excess energy delivered to the distribution
system expire if not used within the time period established in this policy. As
part of the interconnection application. customer's energy usage will be
analyzed using 36-months of historical energy usage (if available) to calculate
the customer’s expected annual usage.
   (E)    Customers that do not qualify for interconnection of distributed
generation under this policy shall be permitted to interconnect and self-
generate as required by and in accordance with the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission’s rules under the PublicUtility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) on a
case-by-case basis.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions in division (D) above, the city
reserves the authority to withhold, deny or delay approval of the
interconnection of proposed on-site generating facilities if the operation of
the facility would be unsafe or pose a risk of adverse impacts to the
distribution system or portions thereof or to the property of other customers
of the city. The city shall withhold approval for only so long as is reasonably
necessary to remedy the risk of adverse impact. The city shall only deny
approval if the adverse impact cannot reasonably be remedied or if the customer
refuses to meet all applicable State and local safety and electrical code
requirements or refuses to provide for payment of the costs of the improvements
to the facility or the system that are required to accommodate the otherwise
eligible on-site generating facility. The city shall not be required to make
unscheduled improvements to its distribution system or portions thereof to
remedy the situation causing the delayed or withheld approval unless the
customer agrees to pay for the reasonable costs thereof. Likewise, the city may
require a customer with an approved on-site generating facility that has been
installed and begun to operate to suspend operations of the facility if it
becomes unsafe or causes adverse impacts to the distribution system or portions
thereof or to the property of other customers of the city, and such suspension
shall be in place only so long as is reasonably necessary to remedy the adverse
impact. The city may require the customer to disconnect the on-site generating
facility from the distribution system in serious situations.
   (G)   (1)   Energy generated by the customer-owned generator during the
billing period may supply all or a portion of the energy required by the
customer’s load. The customer shall be credited for excess energy delivered by
the customer to the city at the meter from the approved on-site generating
facility.
      (2)    For eligible on-site generating facilities that were approved
prior to the effective date of this policy, the following credit method shall
be used to determine excess energy credit until April 30. 2033. For any energy
generated by the customer in excess of the energy required by the customer’s
loads for a given billing period a credit of 1:1 kWh shall be carried forward
to the customer’s next billing period.
      (3)    For all other eligible on-site generating facilities, and after
April 30, 2033, for the above- referenced customers in division (G)(2) above,
the following credit method shall be used to determine excess energy credit:
Energy delivered by the utility to the customer at the meter, as reflected in
the meter reading, shall be billed at the appropriate utility full retail
energy rate. Any excess energy generated by the customer from an approved on-
site generating facility and delivered by the customer to the utility at the
meter, as reflected in the meter reading, a credit shall be created and applied
to the customer's bill. This credit shall be equal to the average net cost of
power per kWh as billed monthly by the power supplier. The city shall install
an appropriate meter to measure both the energy delivered by the utility to the
customer at the meter and the energy delivered by the customer to the utility
at the meter from the approved on-site generating facility.
      (4)   Credits from electric energy delivered to the municipal
distribution system by the customer shall be used to offset usage based
electric energy (kWh) charges only. No such credits shall be applied to, and
the customer shall remain responsible for, (i) taxes, fees, and other charges
that would otherwise be applicable to the net amount of electric energy (kWh)
purchased by the customer from the city or consumed by the customer, and (ii)
other charges to the customer under any other rules, regulations or
rates that are not based on per kilowatt-hour (kWh) charges, including but not
limited to, basic service charges, customer service charges, facilities
charges, demand charges, kVAR charges, transformation charges, taxes and
assessments billed on other than kWh basis, rental fees, and late fees.
      (5)   The city shall carry over any unused credits earned and apply those
credits to subsequent billing periods to offset usage based electric energy
(kWh) charges only for electric energy supplied to the customer by the city
until all credits are used or until the end of the annual period on April 30.
At the end of the annual period, or in the event that the customer terminates
service at the service location with the city prior to the end of annual
period, any remaining credits in the customer's account shall expire and no
credit or payment shall be due to the customer for such expired credits. In the
event of termination of an account qualifying for interconnection of
distributed generation under this policy, any outstanding credits are
surrendered. No credit or payment shall be due to the customer for such
surrendered credits. Under no circumstance will credits for excess energy
transfer to a new customer at the service location after the customer’s service
with the the city terminates.
   (H)   Any costs the city incurs associated with the interconnection of
generating facilities by a customer, including but not limited to changes in
metering (to include installation of a bi-directional meter), or other physical
facilities, whether on the customer’s premises or a reasonably necessary
upgrade to the municipal distribution system or a portion thereof that is not
on the customer’s premises, shall be borne by the customer seeking to install
or for whom the generating facility was installed. Costs assessed under this
section shall be demonstrable and cost-based. Such costs shall not include or
be based on reduced sales by or lost revenues to the city associated with
interconnection of distributed generation.
   (I)   The city shall develop such documents as needed to implement this
policy and any customer applying for or taking service hereunder shall execute
all appropriate documents.
   (J)   Any customer with an approved on-site generating facility that was
approved and in service on or prior to the effective date of this policy may
elect to be treated as if it were placed in service after the effective date of
this policy for purposes of the legacy netting and crediting provisions in
division (G) above. There is a limited one-time option to make such election.
The customer shall make any such election within 60 days of the effective date
this policy.
   (K)   The city reserves the right to interpret, amend or rescind this
policy. Nothing herein is intended to, nor shall it create a right for a
customer to rely on any particular netting or crediting methodology contained
in the policy from time to time, and all rates for excess credits are subject
to change in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois governing
municipalities.
    (L)   Citizen and customer concerns generally with this distributed
generation policy may be raised in the public comment portion of any open
meeting of the governing body of the city at any time and will be considered by
the governing body in accordance with its normal processes. Individual customer
complaints, disputes or concerns shall be raised in the first instance with the
service provider. If the matter cannot be resolved at the service provider
level, this issue shall be reduced to writing and forwarded to the Mayor who
shall schedule a meeting in person or by telephone or other communications
media (i.e., Zoom call) with the customer. The customer may invite its
contractor or other consultant to participate in the meeting. If this process
fails to resolve the matter, the customer may appeal it to the circuit court
and exercise whatever rights and remedies the customer may have in law or
equity. This policy shall be posted on the the city website along with
appropriate contact information.
(Ord. 23-1024-345, passed 10-24-2023)
ELECTRIC SERVICE RATES
§ 53.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this
Chapter 53, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. This classification refers to all such facilities that:
      (1)   Are not deemed residential;
      (2)   Are used to employ person(s) on site, not also used as a residence;
      (3)   Are used as a residence, that also employs person(s) on-site;
      (4)   Are used to generate income;
      (5)   Are used for congregation;
      (6)   Are used for education;
      (7)   That is measured in primary rather than secondary; or
      (8)   Are used with a service greater than 200 ampere (regardless if the
facility is also used as a residence).
   RESIDENTIAL. The term refers to any facility that is not deemed commercial
and either:
      (1)   Is used as a residence and does not employ person(s) on-site; or
      (2)   Is used as a residence and employs person(s) off-site.
(Ord. 20-1027-233, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 53.051 SERVICE CHARGES.
   There are hereby established rates and charges for the use and service of
electric current for light and power based upon electricity consumed as
recorded by electric meters based upon the type of premises served as follows:
   (A)   Electricity used for commercial purposes. The commercial rate used for
billing commercial customers is determined as follows: The commercial rate
shall be determined by first calculating the cost of wholesale power. The cost
of wholesale power shall be as metered and tendered by the wholesale power
company on a month to month basis. The total invoice cost, inclusive of gross
use and demand charges, shall be divided by the total kilowatt hours (kwh)
invoiced for the month. This calculated cost shall be rounded UP to the nearest
fourth decimal. To this cost, the city shall add $0.0600 per kilowatt hour.
   (B)   Electricity used for residential purposes. The residential rate used
for billing residential customers is determined as follows: The residential
rate shall be determined by first calculating the cost of wholesale power. The
cost of wholesale power shall be as metered and tendered by the wholesale power
company on a month to month basis. The total invoice cost, inclusive of gross
use and demand charges, shall be divided by the total kilowatt hours (kwh)
invoices for the month. This calculated cost shall be rounded UP to the nearest
fourth decimal. To this cost, the City shall add $0.0525 per kilowatt hour.
   (C)   Electricity used by the city. The rate for the electricity used by the
city for city owned facilities and infrastructure shall be the same rate as the
rate for residential purposes as set forth above in division (B) in this
section.
(Ord. 20-1027-233, passed 10-27-2020; Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 53.052 METER FEE.
   For all electric utility accounts, there shall be a monthly meter fee as set
forth in §
53.025.
(Ord. 20-1027-233, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 53.053 PAYMENT OF BILLS; NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   The charges for the electric service shall be payable on the first day
of each month, succeeding the month during which the service was furnished or
was available. If any charge is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month in
which it is due, a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added thereto and
collected therewith. The electric supply may be shut off from any premises for
which the electric bill remains unpaid for a period of 25 days after the bill
is rendered and mailed. When shut off, electricity shall not be turned on
except upon the payment of the original electric charge, interest, if any, and
the usual fee for turning on electricity, as provided in §
53.008.
   (B)   The billing company shall terminate electric service for nonpayment of
electric utility service pursuant to notice and procedure provided in §§
50.01 through
50.03.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.070) (Ord. 1218, passed 5-24-1983; Ord. 1433, passed - -
1995; Ord. 22-0125-276, passed 1-25-2022; Ord. 22-0412-282, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 53.054 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for electricity shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by statute. Whenever a bill for electric service remains unpaid 60 days after
it has been rendered, the City Collector may file with the Recorder of the
county, a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice
that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for
electric service provided subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of electricity whose bill is unpaid is not the owner
of the premises, and the City Collector has notice of this, then notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the
City Collector, whenever the bills remain unpaid for a period of 60 days after
it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the City Collector to record the lien claim or to mail
the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid electric bills as mentioned in the
following section.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.080)
§ 53.055 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid electric charges shall be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
city.
   (B)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the
matters, against any property for which an electric bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered.
(1986 Code, § 8.06.090)
Editor’s note:
   See McQuillin Mun. Corp. (3rd Ed) 18.18 note 44, 35.37 through 35.38, 53.103
note 57.
THREE-PHASE CIRCUIT
§ 53.070 APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation requesting special electrical service to
supply electric energy by means of a three-phase circuit shall make application
for that service to the City Collector.
(1986 Code, § 8.08.010)
§ 53.071 FAILURE TO REPORT INSTALLATION OF MOTOR OR MOTORS OF ADDITIONAL
HORSEPOWER.
   Any person who installs motor or motors of additional horsepower without
reporting the same to the City Collector shall upon a conviction be fined, or
the city may elect to refuse to furnish further electrical energy to any person
so found guilty of failing to report any increase in horsepower.
(1986 Code, § 8.08.020) (Ord. 664, passed 1-20-1953) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.072 COST OF RECONNECTION.
   In the case of any electric customer having applied for and used electrical
energy by a three-phase circuit, that the service is disconnected and the
customer thereafter desires to reconnect the service, the customer shall pay
the same amount as required for the original connection.
(1986 Code, § 8.08.030) (Ord. 664, passed 1-20-1953)
COGENERATION AND SMALL POWER PRODUCING FACILITIES
§ 53.085 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications   will be received from those customers who are within the
normal service area of the municipal electric utility and adjacent to
electrical lines of the municipal electric utility and who agree to design,
construct, own, operate and maintain in accordance with prudent utility
practice and the standards established by this subchapter, a cogeneration
facility and desires to sell surplus electrical energy or desires to purchase
electrical energy as a supplement to that energy produced by a cogeneration
facility (hereinafter described as a “qualifying facility” or “customer”).
(1986 Code, § 8.10.010) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.086 PURCHASE OF SURPLUS ENERGY BY MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   The municipal electric utility shall purchase the surplus electrical energy
of a qualifying facility at electrical rates as outlined as a part of this
subchapter, which are represented to be the costs that are avoided by the
municipal electric utility by its power otherwise purchased and generated for
the municipal electric utility.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.020) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.087 SALE OF SUPPLEMENTAL ENERGY BY MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   The municipal electric utility shall sell the supplemental energy to a
qualifying facility as it is within the capability of the municipal electric
utility and at the regular established rates established by the municipal
electric utility.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.030) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.088 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION.
   A qualifying facility, before being connected to the municipal electric
utility shall meet the following provisions and requirements:
   (A)   Provide an expected service date to the municipal electric utility;
   (B)   Provide a complete description of the proposed generating facility,
including its location, source of fuel, nameplate data of principal components
and drawings and exhibits that describe the size, character and continuity of
service and the location of the generating facility;
   (C)   Provide the character of service of the generating facility including
the proposed electrical current, frequency (Hertz), voltage, number of phases,
size of all electrical wire to be used in the generating facility installation;
   (D)   Provide the equipment and facilities to meet the requirements for
metering and protective controls as described in this subchapter; and
   (E)   Provide certification of compliance with all other legal requirements
of the generating facility installation and the emissions therefrom.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.040) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.089 USE OF EQUIPMENT SUITABLE FOR PARALLEL OPERATION WITH MUNICIPAL
SYSTEM.
   The qualifying facility shall furnish, install, operate and maintain
facilities such as relays, switches, synchronizing equipment, control and
protective devices designated by the municipal electric system as suitable for
parallel operation with the municipal system. These facilities shall be
accessible at all times to authorized municipal electric utility personnel.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.050) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.090 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   The municipal electric utility shall have the right to inspect the
qualifying facility’s electric generating facilities, to conduct those
operating tests as are necessary to ascertain that the protective devices
function properly; to review any data collected from the facilities at all
reasonable times, and to independently monitor the aforesaid system.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.060) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.091 RIGHT OF MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TO CURTAIL SERVICE.
   The municipal electric utility reserves the right to curtail services
without liability to the qualifying facility, for necessary maintenance, to
effectuate repairs on its systems, equipment or facilities or for protection of
persons or property or to make other arrangements as may be required to enable
the municipal electric utility to restore service. The municipal utility shall
endeavor to give the qualifying facility that notice as is reasonably practical
in the circumstances.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.070) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.092 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   The qualifying facility shall agree to install and maintain in a thoroughly
safe and efficient manner, and in accordance with good electrical practice and
all applicable lawful regulations, all of its lines, wiring, apparatus,
machinery and appliances connected to the municipal electric system. If at any
time any part of the qualifying facility’s lines, wiring, apparatus, machinery
or appliances shall be in a condition which interferes with the municipal
utilities service to its other customers, the municipal utility may discontinue
service to the qualifying facility until the interfering parts shall be put
back in safe and proper operating condition, or shall have been replaced or
disconnected. Unless emergency or the risk of an emergency is imminent, the
municipal utility shall give reasonable notice of its intention to discontinue
purchases from or service to the qualifying facility on account of any claimed
interference and where practical suitable time for repair or replacement of the
interfering facility. Suspension shall not relieve the qualifying facility of
his, her or its other obligations hereunder.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.080) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.093 FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE.
   Neither the municipal utility nor the qualifying facility shall not be
considered to be in default in respect to any obligation hereunder, other that
the obligation of a party to make payments of amount due another party under
this subchapter, if failure of performance shall be due to uncontrollable
forces. The term UNCONTROLLABLE FORCES means any cause beyond the control of
the party affected, including, but not limited to, failure of facilities,
flood, earthquake, storm, fire, lightning, epidemic, war, riot, civil
disturbance, sabotage, inability to obtain rights-of-way, permits, licenses and
authorizations from any local, state or federal agency or person for any of the
facilities or equipment required to provide service hereunder, and restraint by
court or public authority, which by exercise of due foresight the party could
not reasonably have been expected to avoid, and which by the exercise of due
diligence it be unable to overcome. A party shall not, however, be relieved of
liability for failure of performance if the failure is due to removable or
remediable causes which it fails to remove or remedy with reasonable dispatch.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.090) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.094 METERS.
   The municipal electric utility shall install, own, maintain and test the
meters and associated equipment (hereinafter called “meters”) which in the
municipal utility’s judgment are needed to determine the amounts and time of
delivery of power and energy. However, in the event this agreement is
terminated, the qualifying facility will pay the municipal utility, promptly
upon receipt of statement, the cost, including all applicable overheads of
retiring the meters and the undepreciated portion of the actual cost of
installing the meters. It is recognized that the cost to the municipal utility
of installing the meters is estimated for convenience only to be about $25,000
but the estimate shall not be binding upon the parties, and the qualifying
facility shall be obligated to make payment to the municipal electric utility
based on the actual installed cost.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.100) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.095 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The qualifying facility shall:
      (1)   Indemnify the municipal electric utility, its agents and employees
against loss, damage, expense and all liability resulting from injury or death
of any person or persons including, but not limited to, municipal employees or
customer, or damage to property, including, but not limited to, property of the
city or customer, resulting from arising out of or in any way connected with
the installation, inspection, maintenance, testing and use of the generator
and, on the municipal utility’s request defend any suit asserting a claim
covered by this indemnity; and
      (2)   Reimburse the municipal electric system for all loss, expenses,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred in consequence with any claim,
demands or cause of action which may be made or brought against the municipal
electric utility arising out of or in any way connected with the use of the
equipment. The obligation of the qualifying facility under this section,
accrued or not, then known or unknown, shall be continuing as to any act,
occurrence or omission occurring prior to or following the termination of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The municipal electric system’s approval of the customer’s use of the
equipment shall not be construed as confirming or endorsing the design or
effectiveness of the equipment or the qualifying facility’s plan for use of the
equipment for actual reducing demand or energy usage, or as any warranty of the
safety, durability or reliability of the equipment.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.110) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.096 RATES.
   (A)   For electrical power received, the municipal electric utility shall
pay a qualifying facility the following rates:
 
Summer rate (June 1 to September 30) $0.02 per kwh
Winter rate (October 1 to May 30)    $0.0175 per kwh
 
   (B)   The foregoing rates are based upon the normal net cost of electric
power to the municipal electric utility, and will be increased or decreased,
based upon the increased or decreased cost to the municipal electric utility.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.120) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.097 RATE CHANGES.
   The city may also reflect in the avoided cost rate any rate changes from its
supplier incurred because of a reduction in load factor or a reduction of the
kilowatt-hours (kwhs) formerly purchased by the qualifying facility. This is
because the qualifying facility must not be subsidized by increased electric
rates to other members, under the rules.
(1986 Code, § 8.10.130) (Ord. 1197, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
APPENDIX A: SERVICE TYPES
   OVERHEAD SERVICE TYPE I
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d52f80fcf62be0503f383076c2a01be9fc03e56/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20.jpg]
 
   Residential Service Entrance
   Meter installation must clear telephone wire and downspouts, two feet
minimum, and be placed beyond reach from all windows and doors. Unless
otherwise noted, all wiring materials are to be furnished and installed by the
customer. All service entrance wiring must conform to the National Electrical
Code and Local Electrical Code in force at the time the service is installed.
      1.   Weatherproof service cap (weatherhead) must extend above service
wires (by customer).
      2.   Galvanized rigid steel conduit is to be used. Minimum size is two
inches. Thin wall conduit is not permissible. (Rigid aluminum conduit is
permitted where entirely exposed.)
      3.   Ground rod driven not less than eight feet into ground (by
customer).
      4.   One-half inch galvanized steel pipe. Do not use elbow or unions in
this pipe. Pipe must be bent (by customer). NOTE: three and four shall be steel
pipe (water pipe is recommended) which is not sherardized, painted or coated.
      5.   Wedge-type ground clamp. Clamp and two wedges (furnished by
customer).
      6.   Conduit straps (by customer).
      7.   L.B.C. galvanized fitting having one-half inch bottom outlet.
      8.   Detachable meter in meter socket, furnished by the city.
      9.   Galvanized locknuts. One on outside of switch box and one on inside
of switch box. They must be drawn up tight against switch box, with sharp edges
of locknuts against switch box (furnished by customer).
      10.   Galvanized conduit bonding type bushing (furnished by customer).
      11.   Service entrance switch, fuse or circuit breaker box. Service
entrance box must have a solid grounded neutral. Use bonding screw to bond
neutral bus to the metal cabinet. Box will be sized to service, and will
include protective device and disconnecting means and individual circuit
protection (furnished by customer).
      12.   Copper insulated stranded wire. (Aluminum conductor or equivalent
size is not recommended but may be used with correct application of contax
grease.) Approximately three feet of conductor will extend from weatherhead.
All conductors should be the same size. (Neutral size may be reduced up to 30%
where load is sufficiently balanced to conform to National Electrical Code and
local codes permit.)
   OVERHEAD SERVICE TYPE I
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d52f80fcf62be0503f383076c2a01be9fc03e56/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
 
   Residential Service Entrance
   Meter installation must clear telephone wire and downspouts, two feet
minimum, and be placed beyond reach from all windows and doors. Unless
otherwise noted, all wiring materials are to be furnished and installed by the
customer. All service entrance wiring must conform to the National Electrical
Code and Local Electrical Code in force at the time the service is installed.
      1.   Weatherproof service cap (weatherhead) must extend above service
wires (by customer).
      2.   Galvanized rigid steel conduit is to be used. Minimum size is two
inches. Thin wall conduit is not permissible. (Rigid aluminum conduit is
permitted where entirely exposed.)
      3.   Ground rod driven not less than eight feet into ground (by
customer).
      4.   One-half inch galvanized steel pipe. Do not use elbow or unions in
this pipe. Pipe must be bent (by customer). NOTE: three and four shall be steel
pipe (water pipe is recommended) which is not sherardized, painted or coated.
      5.   Wedge-type ground clamp. Clamp and two wedges (furnished by
customer).
      6.   Conduit straps (by customer).
      7.   L.B.C. galvanized fitting having one-half inch bottom outlet.
      8.   Detachable meter in meter socket, furnished by the city.
      9.   Galvanized locknuts. One on outside of switch box and one on inside
of switch box. They must be drawn up tight against switch box, with sharp edges
of locknuts against switch box (furnished by customer).
      10.   Galvanized conduit bonding type bushing (furnished by customer).
      11.   Service entrance switch, fuse or circuit breaker box. Service
entrance box must have a solid grounded neutral. Use bonding screw to bond
neutral bus to the metal cabinet. Box will be sized to service, and will
include protective device and disconnecting means and individual circuit
protection (furnished by customer).
      12.   Copper insulated stranded wire. (Aluminum conductor or equivalent
size is not recommended but may be used with correct application of contax
grease.) Approximately three feet of conductor will extend from weatherhead.
All conductors should be the same size. (Neutral size may be reduced up to 30%
where load is sufficiently balanced to conform to National Electrical Code and
local codes permit.)
   TEMPORARY OVERHEAD SERVICE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d52f80fcf62be0503f383076c2a01be9fc03e56/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
 
   Items to Be Furnished by Customer
   (A)   Four inch by four inch timber or equal. Timber acceptable only for
temporary installations. For permanent installations, a 16-foot creosoted pine
pole is required. One hundred feet is maximum service length permitted without
intermediate support being furnished and installed by customer. Where service
crosses streets a higher support may be required to provide clearance. The
customer should ask advice from company if in doubt.
   (B)   Weatherhead conduit (two inch minimum conduit).
   (C)   Cable with three feet, zero inch pigtails for connecting to utility
power lines. Cable to be U.L. approved and suitable for service.
   (D)   Raintight fuse switch 60 ampere minimum.
   (E)   Two inch by four inch brace.
   (F)   One-half inch galvanized water pipe for ground.
   (G)   Galvanized wedge clamp.
   (H)   Three-fourths inch by eight feet, zero inches to ten feet, zero inches
galvanized water pipe.
   (I)   Cable to trailer or service cable to be U.L. approved.
   Items to Be Furnished by City
   (J)   Triplex service drop.
   (K)   Meter socket base (installed by customer).
   (L)   Meter (installed by city).
   UNDERGROUND SERVICE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d52f80fcf62be0503f383076c2a01be9fc03e56/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
 
   Items Furnished, Installed and Owned by Customer
   1.   Conduit (rigid galvanized two-inch minimum).
   2.   Locknut two inches.
   3.   Two-inch conduit bushing.
   4.   Two-inch galvanized conduit hanger.
   5.   Lag screw.
   6.   Expansion shield.
   7.   Cable from customer’s disconnect to the meter socket.
   8.   Wedge type ground clamp (optional upon customer grounding).
   9.   Ground rod (optional upon customer grounding method).
   Items Furnished by City
   10.   Meter socket base (installed by customer).
   11.   Meter socket.
   12.   Cable from meter to transformer.
   TEMPORARY UNDERGROUND SERVICE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d52f80fcf62be0503f383076c2a01be9fc03e56/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
   Items Furnished by Customer
   (A)   Temporary service cable to be installed by customer to temporary meter
location must be of an approved underground type without splices from pedestal
to the meter. Maximum distance from pedestal is ten feet.
   (B)   Conduit two-inch minimum galvanized rigid.
   (C)   Raintight fuse switch 60 ampere minimum.
   (D)   Conduit and bonding locknuts.
   (E)   Raintight duplex receptacle.
   (F)   Four feet by four feet timber or equal.
   (G)   Two-inch by 12-inch board.
   (H)   One-half inch galvanized water pipe.
   (I)   Galvanized wedge clamp.
   (J)   Three-fourths inch by eight feet, zero inches to ten feet, zero inches
galvanized water pipe.
   Items Furnished by City
   (K)   Power pedestal.
   (L)   Meter socket base (Installed by customer).
   (M)    Meter (Installed by city).
(1986 Code, Title 8)
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Established
   
54.002   Turning on
   
54.003   Application
   
54.004   Residential and commercial property; service non-refundable fee
   
54.005   Plumbing
   
54.006   Service connection within city limits; fee
   
54.007   Service connection outside city limits; fee
   
54.008   Discontinuance of service; reconnection fee
   
54.009   After hours calls; fee
   
54.010   Separate premises; separate corporation cock; separate meter
   
54.011   Certain connections requiring written permission
   
54.012   Right of entry
   
54.013   Claims against the city
   
54.014   Resale
   
54.015   Tampering
Water Main Additions by Private Contractors and Developers
   
54.030   Preliminary approval
   
54.031   Formal approval
   
54.032   Permanent easement
   
54.033   Pre-annexation agreement
   
54.034   IEPA permit to construct
   
54.035   Installation inspection
   
54.036   Installation disinfection
   
54.037   Connection of water main addition
   
54.038   Water main addition city property
   
54.039   Repair and maintenance and performance bond
   
54.040   As-built plans
   
54.041   Water main addition depth
   
54.042   Fire hydrants, flush hydrants and valves
   
54.043   Water main addition material
   
54.044   Water main addition backfill
   
54.045   Pressure testing
   
54.046   Water main addition cradle
Service Pipes
   
54.060   Installation
   
54.061   Specifications
   
54.062   Repairs
   
54.063   Excavations
   
54.064   Pipes no longer in use
Meters; Rates
   
54.075   Meters required
   
54.076   Meter reading conclusive; exception
   
54.077   Installation
   
54.078   Reading meters
   
54.079   Water rate charged for water service to city subscribers
   
54.080   Water rate charged when one water meter serves more than one house,
apartment or living quarters
   
54.081   Water rate charged for water service to nonresidents of the city
   
54.082   Testing meters
   
54.083   Construction contractors
   
54.084   Payment of bills; nonpayment of bills
   
54.085   Lien
   
54.086   Foreclosure of lien
   
54.087   Revenues
   
54.088   Accounts
Fire Hydrants
   
54.100   Opening and closing by authorized personnel only; permit required for
use of water; user’s responsibility and deposit
Water-Cooled Air Conditioning Systems
   
54.115   Requirements
   
54.116   City may refuse to furnish water
Supplying Water to Jasper Waterwork Corporation
   
54.130   Decision to supply; contract
   
54.131   Authorization
Supplying Water to New Hope Waterworks Corporation
   
54.145   Decision to supply; contract
   
54.146   Authorization
Supplying Water to Boyleston Waterworks Corporation
   
54.160   Decision to supply; contract
   
54.161   Authorization
Cross-Connection Control
   
54.175   Applicability of chapter
   
54.176   Connection to water supply limited
   
54.177   Investigation of cross-connections
   
54.178   Inspection of premises
   
54.179   Disconnection for violation
Groundwater
   
54.190   Use of groundwater
   
54.191   Definitions
Records
   
54.205   Access to records
Appeals
   
54.220   Appeals
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 ESTABLISHED.
   The existing waterworks system now owned and operated by the city and the
existing sewerage system now owned and operated by the city shall be included
in a combined waterworks and sewerage system under the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, Div. 11-139, and shall be operated hereafter as a combined
waterworks and sewerage system under this title.
(1986 Code, § 7.02.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.002 TURNING ON.
   No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department or
some person authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.003 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The service of the water utility shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the occupant and the owner of the premises receiving these services, and
shall be deemed an obligation of both the occupant and the owner to any
premises.
   (B)   Application to have water turned on for a water connection shall be
made in writing to the City Collector on a form provided by the city and shall
contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the city water
supply by the applicant. No fee shall be charged except as hereinafter
provided.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.004 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY; SERVICE NON-REFUNDABLE FEE.
   Prior to receiving city water service, all residential and commercial water
utility customers shall be required to make a water service non-refundable fee
payment with the City Collector as provided in §§
36.075 through
36.077.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.030) (Ord. 1331, passed - -1988; Ord. 20-1124-239, passed
11-24-2020)
§ 54.005 PLUMBING.
   (A)   No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the city; provided that water
may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All plumbing fixtures and methods of installation shall comply with
the requirements of the current State Plumbing Code, except that K copper pipe
shall be used for the water main to the water meter.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.006 SERVICE CONNECTION WITHIN CITY LIMITS; FEE.
   (A)   No connections with a water main within the city limits shall be made
without a 24-hour notice having been given to the Superintendent of Water and
Sewer.
   (B)   All connections from the water main shall be made and all work done at
the expense of the applicant, who shall also furnish materials necessary for
the work, except that the city will furnish the meter, meter tile and meter
lid, which shall remain the property of the city, and install the corporation
cock, which shall be furnished by the applicant, up to a one-inch-service. The
city shall not install or furnish any equipment for a larger than one-inch-
service except by approval of the City Council.
   (C)   All connections shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent and no connections shall be covered until the work has been
inspected by him or her.
   (D)   Applications for the connections must be made to the City Collector
and a fee of $250 shall be paid for each connection, unless the City Council
and the applicant have agreed to a specified amount. If applicant desires to do
so, he or she may make a down payment of $50 and four monthly installment
payments of $50.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1264, passed - -1985)
§ 54.007 SERVICE CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS; FEE.
   (A)   No connections with a water main outside the city limits shall be made
without a 24-hour notice having been given to the Superintendent of Water and
Sewer.
   (B)   All connections from the water main shall be made and all work done at
the expense of the applicant, who shall also furnish materials necessary for
the work, except that the city will furnish the meter, meter tile and meter
lid, which shall remain the property of the city, and install the corporation
cock, which shall be furnished by the applicant, up to a one-inch-service. The
city shall not install or furnish any equipment for a larger than one-inch-
service, except by approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Where more than one service is planned before any water connection is
made, and immediately following application procedure, as provided in §
54.003, a plan shall be drafted that will show in detail the location of the
water line and the quality and size of the line, all meeting IEPA standards,
and being at the expense of the applicant.
   (D)   All connections shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent and no connections shall be covered until the work has been
inspected by him or her.
   (E)   Application for the connections must be made to the City Collector,
and a fee of $500 shall be paid for each connection of a dwelling or business,
unless the City Council and the applicant have agreed to a specified amount. If
the applicant desires to do so, he or she may make a down payment of $100 and
eight monthly installment payments of $50.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.060) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.008 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION FEE.
   The city reserves the right to discontinue water service to any premises on
account of nonpayment of fees or charges, or where the owner or tenant of the
premises is guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter. Where
service is discontinued and the water shut off or stopped, whether by the city
for the causes aforesaid or at the request of the property owner or tenant
because of an extended absence from the city, the water shall not again be
turned on or supplied to the premises, until it shall appear that all
delinquent charges due the city for water or services previously furnished have
been paid, and that there is no existing default or violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter and a written application has been filed with the
City Collector for the renewal of the water service, which shall be accompanied
by a fee of $50.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994;
Ord. 20-1124-238, passed 11-24-2020)
§ 54.009 AFTER HOURS CALLS; FEE.
   When an owner or tenant requests the service of any member of the Water and
Sewer Department on the owner’s service pipes from meter into house or requests
the water turned on or off after the Department’s regular working hours, there
shall be a minimum charge of $25 within the city limits and $40 outside city
limits.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994)
§ 54.010 SEPARATE PREMISES; SEPARATE CORPORATION COCK; SEPARATE METER.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any water pipe or take water
supplied by the waterworks system of the city into two distinct premises unless
separate and distinct service corporation cocks shall be provided for each, nor
shall city water be so connected or supplied to separate premises unless each
is provided with a separate meter.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.090) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.011 CERTAIN CONNECTIONS REQUIRING WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   No consumer will be permitted to supply pressure steam boilers, feed pumps,
injectors, inspirators or like appliances to be connected directly with the
water service pipe, without written permission of the Superintendent of Water
and Sewer Department or Committee of Water and Sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.012 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   All water meters and water fixtures, connections and appurtenances on
private property connected with the waterworks system of the city shall be open
to the inspection of the proper officers and employees of the city at all
reasonable hours or when necessary.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.013 CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to shut off water in any of the mains in
its distribution system, without notice and at any time, for the purpose of
concentrating water in any part of the city in case of fire or for any other
reasonable cause. No claim shall be made against the city for damages arising
out of the breaking of any service pipe or its connections, or on account of
the shutting off of the water as above provided, or from the freezing or
bursting of pipe or fixtures, or on account of the failure of the city to
furnish an adequate supply of water at all times.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to mean that the city will
furnish water to any person or business outside of the city or if having once
furnished water to any person or business outside of the city shall continue to
furnish water for any specified period of time.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.120) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.014 RESALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to pump or
otherwise obtain water from municipally owned lakes, ponds, reservoirs, water
supply system or streams, or either of them, for private gain, without paying
for the same at established rates established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.130) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.015 TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to break the seal
of any meter or in any manner to make any alterations, changes or repairs on
the same, or to open any mains, laterals, service pipes, stop-cocks, hydrants
or valves or any part thereof, or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any
work on either or any of them without authority given by the City Council or
the Water and Sewer Committee or the Superintendent of Water and Sewer
Department. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section,
or who shall willfully, maliciously or negligently injure or damage any
property connected with the waterworks system of the city, shall be subject to
the penalty prescribed in §
54.999.
(1986 Code, § 7.04.140) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
54.999
WATER MAIN ADDITIONS BY PRIVATE CONTRACTORS AND DEVELOPERS
§ 54.030 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   Preliminary approval of a proposed water main addition may be obtained from
the Superintendent of Water and Sewer prior to the preparation of final plans
and specifications. However, in the event that preliminary approval of a
proposed water main addition is not obtained, an application for formal
approval will not be prejudiced.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.031 FORMAL APPROVAL.
   Final plans and specifications shall be submitted to the Superintendent of
Water and Sewer for formal approval prior to submission of an application for a
permit to construct to the State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of
Public Water Supplies.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.032 PERMANENT EASEMENT.
   Prior to formal approval, the Superintendent of Water and Sewer may require
execution and delivery of a permanent easement not less than ten feet in even
width, centered over the proposed water main addition along its full length.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.033 PRE-ANNEXATION AGREEMENT.
   Prior to formal approval, the Superintendent of Water and Sewer may require
execution and delivery of a pre-annexation agreement set forth below with
respect to the property that will be serviced by the proposed water main
addition:
      The undersigned owners of the property previously described in this
application, for themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns, hereby agree with the City of Fairfield, Illinois and its assigns,
that in the event that the property previously described in this application,
or any part thereof, becomes contiguous to the City of Fairfield, Illinois,
then in that event, the undersigned owners, their heirs, executors,
administrators and assigns, will immediately petition the City Council of the
City of Fairfield, Illinois to annex the property previously described in this
application together with the property contiguous thereto owned by the
undersigned, or either of them, including all adjacent public streets, roads
and highways, to the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.034 IEPA PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT.
   An IEPA permit to construct shall be received by the city prior to
commencement of installation.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.035 INSTALLATION INSPECTION.
   The completed installation shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Water
and Sewer, or his or her authorized agent, for conformity with the final plans
and specifications, particularly with respect to materials and depth, prior to
final cover.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.060)
§ 54.036 INSTALLATION DISINFECTION.
   Disinfection of the installation shall be in conformity with the final plans
and specifications and shall include two sets of satisfactory bacterial
analyses of samples collected not less than 24 hours apart and analyzed in a
laboratory duly certified by the state. The location and number of samples
shall be in accordance with IEPA or city requirements, whatever are more
stringent.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.037 CONNECTION OF WATER MAIN ADDITION.
   Connection of the water main addition to the city water system shall be in
accordance with city requirements and shall be under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Water and Sewer and the applicant shall pay for expenses (at
cost) for connection.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.038 WATER MAIN ADDITION CITY PROPERTY.
   The connected water main addition shall become the property of the city and
any water service taps along the water main addition shall be made by the city
and shall be subject to all applicable fees and requirements for water service
taps.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.090) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.039 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE AND PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The applicant shall agree to pay for any maintenance or repair (at cost)
performed by the city or under contract with the city during the first year of
ownership by the city of the water main addition. The city may require
assurance in the form of a performance bond with respect to the foregoing
agreement.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.040 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   The applicant shall provide three sets of as-built plans and specifications
to the city within 90 days following connection of the water main addition to
the city water system. In the event that the as-built plans are not provided to
the city within 90 days following connection of the water main addition to the
city water system, the city may cause to be prepared as-built plans and
specifications and the applicant shall pay for the expenses (at cost) thereof.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.041 WATER MAIN ADDITION DEPTH.
   Not less than three and one-half feet of cover shall be provided over the
crown of the pipe. In the event that an area is subject to future cut or fill,
the depth shall be so that the required cover shall be provided to finish
grade.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.120) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.042 FIRE HYDRANTS, FLUSH HYDRANTS AND VALVES.
   The style, manufacturer and location of fire hydrants, flush hydrants and
valves shall be in accordance with city requirements.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.130) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.043 WATER MAIN ADDITION MATERIAL.
   Pipe material shall be in accordance with city requirements and shall be at
least equivalent to the following:
 
Asbestos cement         Class 150
Ductile iron            Class 50
PVC (rubber ring joint) SDR 21
 
(1986 Code, § 7.05.140) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.044 WATER MAIN ADDITION BACKFILL.
   Select granular backfill shall be provided for water main additions located
in existing or potential roadways in accordance with Division II, Section 20,
Paragraph 2.21C (1 and 2) of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.150) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.045 PRESSURE TESTING.
   (A)   The installed water main addition shall pass the hydrostatic pressure
test set forth below prior to final acceptance. The private contractor or
developer shall be permitted, at his or her option, to backfill completed
sections of the water main addition prior to pressure testing. However, the
private contractor or developer shall notify the city of his or her exercise of
the foregoing option prior to backfilling. In the event that the installed
water main addition fails to pass the pressure testing, the private contractor
or developer shall pay for expenses of locating leaks, replacing excavations
and retesting sections. During pressure testing, the pipe shall be filled
slowly with water and air shall be completely expelled from the pipe. In order
to expel completely the air from the pipe, the pipe shall be tapped at the high
point to vent the air, if necessary.
   (B)   Pressure 50% in excess of working pressure, as measured at the point
of lowest elevations, shall be applied for not less than two hours for testing
of exposed sections of piping, and for not less than 24 hours for sections of
piping backfilled prior to testing. All exposed piping, fittings, valves,
hydrants and joints shall be examined for defects. Leaking joints shall be
remade and then retested and re-examined. Minimum testing pressure shall be 120
pounds per square inch (120 psi).
   (C)   No installed water main addition shall be finally accepted unless and
until the leakage, as measured under the testing pressure, is less than 70 U.S.
gallons per 24 hours per mile per inch nominal diameter for pipe of 12-foot
lengths, 50 U.S. gallons per 16-foot lengths, and correspondingly varied for
other lengths of pipe.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.160) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.046 WATER MAIN ADDITION CRADLE.
   Granular cradle shall be provided for all water main additions larger than
four inches (inside diameter) consisting of polyvinyl chloride and/or asbestos
cement materials in accordance with Division II, Section 20, Paragraph 2.20A (1
and 2) of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
(1986 Code, § 7.05.170) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
SERVICE PIPES
§ 54.060 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be
installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. This installation shall be under the inspection of
the Superintendent of Water and Sewer.
   (B)   A permanent easement not less than ten feet in even width, centered
over all service pipes along their full length from the water mains to the
meters shall be executed and delivered and at the cost of the owner of the
property to be served or the applicant for the service. All service pipes from
the mains to the premises served shall become the property of the city and
shall be conveyed to the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.06.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.061 SPECIFICATIONS.
   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to specifications of the
current State Plumbing Code, except that K copper pipe or polyethylene (having
a minimum pressure class of 160 psi) tubing shall be used from the water main
to the water meter.
(1986 Code, § 7.06.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 19-0611-173, passed 6-
11-2019)
§ 54.062 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All repairs for service pipes from the water meter to the building and
plumbing systems of the buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the
owners of the premises serviced and all service pipes shall be kept in good
repair.
   (B)   The city may, in case of an emergency, repair the service pipes, and
if this is done the cost of the repair work shall be repaid to the city by the
owner of the premises served. All repairs for service pipes from the water main
to the water meter shall be made by and at the expense of the city; provided
that the city holds a permanent easement centered over the service pipes and
owns the service pipes from the water main to the water meter, in accordance
with §
54.060.
(1986 Code, § 7.06.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the provisions relating to making excavations in streets.
(1986 Code, § 7.06.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.064 PIPES NO LONGER IN USE.
   Whenever service pipes for water are permanently no longer in use, the
property owner shall make a cut-off from the pipes at a point indicated by the
Superintendent of Water and Sewer, and the cut-off shall meet all
specifications required by the Superintendent of Water and Sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.06.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
METERS; RATES
§ 54.075 METERS REQUIRED.
   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter furnished by the city, but paid for by the consumer; provided that
water service may be supplied by the city at a flat rate of charge until the
meter may be installed. Before any premises are occupied, a water meter shall
be installed therein as required in this section, or application made for water
service at the flat rate of charge until the meter can be installed, or no
water shall be furnished the premises.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.076 METER READING CONCLUSIVE; EXCEPTION.
   All consumers shall be liable for water consumption as shown by the meter,
whether used, wasted or used by leakage; provided that if a meter is found to
have stopped registering, or to be defective or out of order, the quantity used
shall be estimated and the charge adjusted on the basis of the consumption
during a corresponding prior period.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.077 INSTALLATION.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easily accessible and
designated by the Superintendent of Water and Sewer or a member of his or her
Department.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.078 READING METERS.
   The inspector of meters shall read or cause to be read every water meter
used in the city at those times as are necessary that the bills may be sent out
at the proper time.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.079 WATER RATE CHARGED FOR WATER SERVICE TO CITY SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   The rates and charges for the services of the water system of the city
shall be based upon the amount of water furnished to each subscriber.
   (B)   The rate shall be as follows:
      (1)   Commencing May 1, 2024, for Year 1 (and on the first day of May for
each subsequent year) the monthly meter charges for water meters (for each
meter) and for each subsequent corresponding Year, shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Water Meter Charge
1    May 1, 2024     $21.00
2    May 1, 2025     $22.00
3    May 1, 2026     $23.00
4    May 1, 2027     $24.00
5    May 1, 2028     $25.00
 
      (2)   (a)   Commencing August 1, 2022, for residents of the City of
Fairfield, Illinois, for Year 1 (and on the first day of May for each
subsequent year) the monthly water usage rate charges for the categories of
1,000 through 75,000 gallons of water used; and for water usage exceeding
75,000 gallons of water used, and for each subsequent corresponding Year, the
rates shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Water Rate       Water Rate
                     (1,000 - 75,000) (75,000+)
1    August 1, 2022  $8.50            $7.25
2    May 1, 2023     $8.75            $7.50
3    May 1, 2024     $9.00            $7.75
4    May 1, 2025     $9.25            $8.00
5    May 1, 2026     $9.50            $8.25
 
         (b)   Commencing August 1, 2022, for non-residents of the City of
Fairfield, Illinois, for Year 1 (and on the first day of May for each
subsequent year) the monthly water usage rate charges for the categories of
1,000 through 75,000 gallons of water used; and for water usage exceeding
75,000 gallons of water used, and for each subsequent corresponding Year, the
rates shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Water Rate       Water Rate
                     (1,000 - 75,000) (75,000+)
1    August 1, 2022  $12.50           $11.25
2    May 1, 2023     $12.75           $11.50
3    May 1, 2024     $13.00           $11.75
4    May 1, 2025     $13.25           $12.00
5    May 1, 2026     $13.50           $12.25
 
      (3)   For bulk water purchasers, including, but not limited to, the
Boyleston Waterworks Corporation, Jasper Waterworks Corporation and New Hope
Waterworks Corporation, the rate shall be $3.50 per 1,000 gallons per month.
      (4)   The city shall have the authority to enter into water purchase
contracts with bulk water purchasers which set future water rate increases
based on the Consumer Price Index.
   (C)   The residential and commercial rates charged by the city for the sale
of water shall be increased by 5% effective September 1, 2010. The 5% increase
in water rates shall be calculated by using the water rates in force on August
1, 2010 as required by this section of the municipal code. The adjusted rate is
represented as follows:
 
Residential Water
4.1500
step 1 1 4.15 first 10,000 no change 1
step 2 1 4.08000 + .20 = 4.28        10
 
   (D)   The residential and commercial rates charged by the city for the sale
of water shall be increased by 5% effective March 1, 2011.
   (E)   The utility rates charged by the city for the sale of water to
residential and commercial customers, and the costs and expenses which are
incurred by the city shall be evaluated in December, 2011, and in December in
each and every year thereafter in order for the City Council to make a decision
about any utility rate increases which may be advisable.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.060) (Ord. 1516, passed - -1999; Ord. 08-0122-02, passed 1-
22-2008; Ord. 10-0810-07, passed 8-10-2010; Ord. 12-0228-33, passed 2-28-2012;
Ord. 16-0223-106, passed 2-23-2016; Ord. 20-0714-219, passed 7-14-2020; Ord.
20-0728-221, passed 7-28-2020; Ord. 22-0726-291, passed 7-26-2022; Ord. 23-
0228-324, passed 2-28-2023; Ord. 24-0423-363, passed 4-23-2024)
§ 54.080 WATER RATE CHARGED WHEN ONE WATER METER SERVES MORE THAN ONE HOUSE,
APARTMENT OR LIVING QUARTERS.
   In all cases where there is only one water meter serving more than one
house, apartment or living quarters occupied by or equipped for separate
families, then the water rates charged for the water supplied through the meter
shall be as follows:
   (A)   The minimum monthly charge shall be multiplied by the number of
houses, apartments or living quarters for separate families served by the
meter; and
   (B)   In computing the rates for water used monthly, each rate or bracket of
charges shall be multiplied by the number of houses, apartments or living
quarters for separate families before the next rate or bracket of charges shall
go into effect.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 10-0810-07, passed 8-
10-2010)
§ 54.081 WATER RATE CHARGED FOR WATER SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS OF THE CITY.
   All water rates for water sold to nonresidents of the city shall be 50%
higher than the regular water rates charged to residents of the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 10-0810-07, passed 8-
10-2010)
§ 54.082 TESTING METERS.
   Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested upon complaint of
the consumer, upon payment of a fee of $10. If upon test the meter is not
within 3% of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the $10 fee
returned to the consumer. The water utility bill shall be turned over to the
Collection Committee for adjustment.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.090) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994)
§ 54.083 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS.
   During the construction of any building and before any water is installed as
herein provided the contractor so constructing the building may be permitted to
use the city water supply by making application therefor, and paying the flat
fee prescribed by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.084 PAYMENT OF BILLS; NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   The charges for the combined waterworks and sewerage service and for
water service alone and for sewer service alone shall be payable on the first
day of each month succeeding the month during which the service was furnished
or was available. If any charge is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month
in which it is due, a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added thereto
and collected therewith. The water supply may be shut off from any premises for
which the water bill remains unpaid for a period of 20 days after the bill is
rendered and mailed. When shut off, water shall not be turned on except upon
the payment of the original water charge, interest if any and the usual fee for
turning on water, as provided in §
54.008.
   (B)   The City Collector shall terminate water and/or sewer service for
nonpayment of water and/or sewer utility service pursuant to notice and
procedure as provided in §§
50.01 through
50.03.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1433, passed - -1995;
Ord. 22-0412-282, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 54.085 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for water or sewer shall be a lien upon the premises as
provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered, the City Collector may file with the
Recorder of the county a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain
the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and
a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for water or sewer served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of water or sewer whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises, and the City Collector has notice of this, then notice
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises, if this address is known to the
City Collector, whenever the bills remain unpaid for a period of 60 days after
it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the City Collector to record the lien claim or to mail
the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water or sewer bills as mentioned in
§
54.086.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.120) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.086 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water or sewer charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
city.
   (B)   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute proceedings,
in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over those matters,
against any property for which a water or sewer bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.130) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.087 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water system
shall be deposited in the water account of the Water Fund. All revenues and
moneys shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from his or her
private fund and separate and apart from all other funds of the City Treasurer
not more than ten days after receipt of the same or at more frequent intervals
as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall receive all revenues from the water system
and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of the system as the
same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the “Water Fund of the City of Fairfield.”
   (C)   The Treasurer shall administer the Fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the state Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.140) (Ord. 1515, passed - -1999)
§ 54.088 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at
regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including replacement costs.
   (C)   The financial information to be shown in the outer report shall
include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system; and
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
(1986 Code, § 7.08.150) (Ord. 1515, passed - -1999)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 54.100 OPENING AND CLOSING BY AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY; PERMIT REQUIRED FOR
USE OF WATER; USER’S RESPONSIBILITY AND DEPOSIT.
   All fire hydrants are set primarily for fire protection, and the opening and
closing of the same shall be done solely by the duly authorized officers or
employees of the city. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to use water
from a fire hydrant for construction or other purposes shall first secure a
permit from the Superintendent of Water and Sewer of this city, and shall be
held responsible for all damage which may be done to the hydrant or other
property which may be caused by use. The Superintendent of Water and Sewer may
require a deposit of cash or other security for the payment of damages and for
the water to be used, and may prescribe conditions for the use of the hydrant
as may seem expedient.
(1986 Code, § 7.10.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
WATER-COOLED AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEMS
§ 54.115 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall use water obtained from the municipal
water system of the city for use in a water cooled air-conditioning system
unless the water system used is a closed system where the water is circulated
through a cooling tower.
(1986 Code, § 7.12.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.116 CITY MAY REFUSE TO FURNISH WATER.
   The city shall be under no obligation to furnish water or to continue to
furnish water for an air conditioning unit not complying with §
54.115, but the city may refuse to deliver water to the system at any time.
(1986 Code, § 7.12.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
SUPPLYING WATER TO JASPER WATERWORK CORPORATION
§ 54.130 DECISION TO SUPPLY; CONTRACT.
   (A)   The City Council finds and declares the present water filtration plant
of the city is capable of supplying water to satisfy the needs of both the city
and the Jasper Waterwork Corporation.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that the city enter into a contract with the
Jasper Waterwork Corporation. Copies of the contract are kept on file in the
City Clerk’s office.
(1986 Code, § 7.14.010) (Res. 1003, passed 5-28-1996)
§ 54.131 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor of the city is authorized and directed to execute the contract for
and on behalf of the city and the City Clerk is authorized and directed to
attest the same and affix the seal of the city thereto.
(1986 Code, § 7.14.020) (Ord. Res. 1003, passed 5-28-1996)
SUPPLYING WATER TO NEW HOPE WATERWORKS CORPORATION
§ 54.145 DECISION TO SUPPLY; CONTRACT.
   (A)   The City Council finds and declares that the present water filtration
plant of the city is capable of supplying water to satisfy the needs of both
the city and the New Hope Waterworks Corporation from and after the completion
of improvements to the water transportation line between the city water
filtration plant and the city limits and upon improvements to the filtration
plant itself.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that the city amend the water purchase contract
dated March 11, 1981 attached to and approved by Ordinance 1170 passed January
13, 1981 with the New Hope Waterworks Corporation to increase the quantity as
may be required by the New Hope Waterworks Corporation from the city pursuant
to the water purchase contract to a quantity not to exceed 2,000,000 gallons
per month, subject to the completion of the improvements to the water
filtration plant and transportation pipe between the plant and city limits of
the city as aforesaid.
(1986 Code, § 7.15.010) (Ord. 1338, passed - -1989)
§ 54.146 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor of the city is authorized and directed to execute an amended water
purchase contract for and on behalf of the city and the City Clerk is
authorized and directed to attest the same and affix the seal of the city
thereto. A copy of the amended water purchase contract is attached to the
ordinance codified in this chapter as Exhibit A. Copies of the contract are
kept on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(1986 Code, § 7.15.020) (Ord. 1338, passed - -1989)
SUPPLYING WATER TO BOYLESTON WATERWORKS CORPORATION
§ 54.160 DECISION TO SUPPLY; CONTRACT.
   (A)   The City Council finds and declares the present water filtration plant
of the city is capable of supplying water to satisfy the needs of both the city
and the Village of Boyleston.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that the city enter into a contract with the
Village of Boyleston. Copies of contract are kept on file in the City Clerk’s
office.
(1986 Code, § 7.16.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 54.161 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor of the city is authorized and directed to execute the contract for
and on behalf of the city and the City Clerk is authorized and directed to
attest the same and affix the seal of the city thereto.
(1986 Code, § 7.16.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 54.175 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   If, in accordance with the State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the State
Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of approved devices as required by the State Plumbing Code and
local regulations.
(1986 Code, § 7.17.010) (Ord. 1347, passed - -1989)
§ 54.176 CONNECTION TO WATER SUPPLY LIMITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the municipality,
unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent
of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1986 Code, § 7.17.020) (Ord. 1347, passed - -1989)
§ 54.177 INVESTIGATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   It is the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. These surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as
often as the Superintendent of Water deems necessary. Records of the surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(1986 Code, § 7.17.030) (Ord. 1347, passed - -1989)
§ 54.178 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city water supply for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
Water Superintendent, or his or her authorized agent, shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water the property. The
refusal of information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the
Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 7.17.040) (Ord. 1347, passed - -1989)
§ 54.179 DISCONNECTION FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water of the city is authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take any other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to the property shall not
be restored until the conditions have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of
$200 is paid to the city.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be affected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. The action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of the disconnection.
(1986 Code, § 7.17.050) (Ord. 1347, passed - -1989)
GROUNDWATER
§ 54.190 USE OF GROUNDWATER.
   (A)   The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from
within the corporate limits of the city, as a potable water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.20.010) (Ord. 1568, passed - -2003; Ord. 1631, passed 9-13-
2005; Ord. 1657, passed 5-8-2007; Ord. 1658, passed 5-22-2007; Ord. 11-0208-21,
passed 2-8-2011) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
(1986 Code, § 7.20.030) (Ord. 1568, passed - -2003; Ord. 1631, passed 9-13-
2005; Ord. 1657, passed 5-8-2007; Ord. 1658, passed 5-22-2007; Ord. 11-0208-21,
passed 2-8-2011)
RECORDS
§ 54.205 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State EPA, or its authorized representative, shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the
city system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant or any loan agreement and
rules or any state loan.
(1986 Code, § 7.19.010) (Ord. 1515, passed - -1999)
APPEALS
§ 54.220 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
54.075 through
54.088 shall be made available to a user within 14 days of receipt of written
requests therefor. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by the city within 21 days after notification of a
formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(1986 Code, § 7.18.010) (Ord. 1515, passed - -1999)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 55: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Definitions
Mandatory Public Sewer Use
   
55.015   Unsanitary deposit of waste in city unlawful
   
55.016   Discharge of pollutants in any watercourse unlawful; exception
   
55.017   Certain disposal facilities prohibited; exception
   
55.018   Connection of toilet facilities to public sewer required; where; cost;
time limit
Private Sewage Disposal
   
55.030   Private sewage disposal system lawful; when
   
55.031   Permit; application; fee
   
55.032   Superintendent’s approval required; inspection
   
55.033   Standards; specifications
   
55.034   Connection of facilities to public sewer required; when
   
55.035   Owner responsible for sanitary maintenance
   
55.036   Chapter provisions not exclusive
   
55.037   Connection of facilities to public sewer; period of compliance;
specifications of fill-in
Building Sewers and Connections
   
55.050   Permit; required
   
55.051   Two classes of permits; application; supplemental to application; fees
   
55.052   Permit issuance contingent on capacity
   
55.053   Sewer connections outside of city limits for industrial acreage
   
55.054   Costs to owner
   
55.055   Separate facility for each building required; exception
   
55.056   Old facilities permitted; when
   
55.057   Building and Plumbing Code applicable
   
55.058   Building sewer; size and slope
   
55.059   Building sewer; placement
   
55.060   Connections prohibited
   
55.061   Excavations generally
   
55.062   Excavations; safety measures; restoration of property
   
55.063   Joints and connections; standards and specifications
   
55.064   Inspection
   
55.065   Sewer pipes no longer in use
Extension of Sewer Mains
   
55.080   Payment for extension
   
55.081   Extension by other than city
Rates
   
55.095   Rates and charges; payment and nonpayment of bills; lien and
foreclosure of lien
   
55.096   Use of sewer without use of water
Use of the Public Sewers
   
55.110   Discharge of specified waters into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
55.111   Discharge of specified waters to natural outlets or storm sewers
   
55.112   Discharge of specified materials to any public sewer prohibited
   
55.113   Discharge of specified substances prohibited without Superintendent’s
approval
   
55.114   Specified waters and wastes subject to review and approval of
Superintendent; preliminary treatment may be required
   
55.115   Alternatives for action with regard to waste substances under
Superintendent’s review
   
55.116   Interceptors; required; standards
   
55.117   Maintenance of pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
55.118   Manholes; required; installations and maintenance provisions
   
55.119   Water sampling; procedures
   
55.120   Policy for treatment of special industrial waste
Protection From Damage
   
55.135   Vandalism a criminal offense
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
55.150   Inspectors; access to property; authority limited
   
55.151   Inspection; procedure
   
55.152   Inspectors; access to easements on private property
Wastewater Service Charge
   
55.165   Sewer user charges
   
55.166   User charge
   
55.167   Surcharge
   
55.168   Service charge audit
   
55.169   Measurement of flow
   
55.170   Basic user rate and facility charge
   
55.171   (Reserved)
   
55.172   (Reserved)
   
55.173   (Reserved)
   
55.174   Rebate
   
55.175   No water service sewer rate
   
55.176   Revenues
   
55.177   Accounts
   
55.178   Notice of rates
   
55.179   Access to records
   
55.180   Change in occupancy
   
55.181   Imposed charge on residential households located outside the city
   
55.182   Imposed charge on business locations outside the city
   
55.183   Charge included on monthly utility bill
 
   
55.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.013)
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.015)
   BOD. Denoting biochemical oxygen demand means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.020)
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.030)
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.040)
   CITY. The City of Fairfield, Wayne County, Illinois.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.045)
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.048)
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any user offering lodging, selling goods or offering
services for sale.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.050)
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city’s representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.051)
   DEPRECIATION. Expenditure to establish a sinking fund for replacement of
major treatment units at the expiration of the facilities’ useful life.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.053)
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.054)
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.055)
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.056)
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
(Pub. L. Nos. 92-500 and 93-243).
(1986 Code, § 7.22.057)
   FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, and implementing regulations.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.058)
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pre-treatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE FAT if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.059)
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.060)
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
      (1)   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B, Mining;
      (3)   Division D, Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
      (5)   Division I, Services.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.065)
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.070)
   MAY. Is permissive.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.180)
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.075)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.080)
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where deemed appropriate by the Director, after
enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to
regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.085)
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.090)
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.100)
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.102)
   ppm. Parts per million.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.240)
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.104)
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.110)
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.120)
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. The term operation and maintenance includes
REPLACEMENT.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.126)
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of the treatment works residing in a dwelling
unit and contributing primarily domestic wastes or wastes from a sanitary
convenience.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.125)
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.130)
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with ground,
surface and stormwaters as may be present.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.140)
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.150)
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.160)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.170)
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.161)
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.180)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.190)
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.191)
   STATE ACT. The State Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.192)
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, means a sewer which carries storm
and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes,
other than unpolluted cooling water.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.200)
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm surface and groundwater drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.201)
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.202)
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewage Works and/or of water pollution
control of the city, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.210)
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §
55.171.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.211)
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.220)
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.221)
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be 20 years from the date of startup
of any wastewater facilities constructed with a federal grant.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.224)
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.222)
   USER CLASS. The type of user, either residential or commercial
(nonindustrial), or industrial, as defined in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.223)
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and stormwater that may be present.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.225)
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.226)
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in §§
55.165 through
55.183 and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge, the capital
cost charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.228)
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS
is synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.227)
   WATER AND SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation of all
revenues received in the city’s operation of the sewerage system.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.229)
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of the
state.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.232)
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1986 Code, § 7.22.230)
(Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994)
MANDATORY PUBLIC SEWER USE
§ 55.015 UNSANITARY DEPOSIT OF WASTE IN CITY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1986 Code, § 7.24.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.016 DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS IN ANY WATERCOURSE UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 7.24.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.017 CERTAIN DISPOSAL FACILITIES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1986 Code, § 7.24.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.018 CONNECTION OF TOILET FACILITIES TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; WHERE; COST;
TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city limits and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city,
is required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect these facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
(1986 Code, § 7.24.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 55.030 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM LAWFUL; WHEN.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
55.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.031 PERMIT; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994)
§ 55.032 SUPERINTENDENT’S APPROVAL REQUIRED; INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 60 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.033 STANDARDS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
(now the Environmental Protection Agency) of the state. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than a size suitable
for installation of an effective system. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.034 CONNECTION OF FACILITIES TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; WHEN.
   At the time that a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
55.033, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspool and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.035 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.060) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.036 CHAPTER PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Office of
the county or the state.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.037 CONNECTION OF FACILITIES TO PUBLIC SEWER; PERIOD OF COMPLIANCE;
SPECIFICATIONS OF FILL-IN.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1986 Code, § 7.26.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 55.050 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.051 TWO CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATION; SUPPLEMENTAL TO APPLICATION;
FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   Service establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   (1)   In either case, the owner, or his or her agent, shall make
application on a special form furnished by the City Collector.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   A permit and inspection fee of $50 for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit, and $50 for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the City Collector at the time the application is
filed, unless the City Council and the applicant have agreed to a specified
amount.
      (2)   If applicant desires, he or she may make a down payment of $10 and
four monthly payments of $10 each.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.052 PERMIT ISSUANCE CONTINGENT ON CAPACITY.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.025) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.053 SEWER CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF CITY LIMITS FOR INDUSTRIAL ACREAGE.
   No sewer connection shall be made to property owners outside the city
limits, except that a special dispensation will be considered by the city in
the case of industrial acreage owned by the city.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.054 COSTS TO OWNER.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.055 SEPARATE FACILITY FOR EACH BUILDING REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.056 OLD FACILITIES PERMITTED; WHEN.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.060) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.057 BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE APPLICABLE.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M., the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9, and the
latest edition of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois. All connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.058 BUILDING SEWER; SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of the four-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch
per foot. For larger sizes of pipe, the minimum slopes shall be according to
all state and local regulations.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.059 BUILDING SEWER; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to any bearing wall if within three feet of any wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction or grade shall be allowed
only when a proper manhole is constructed at the location of the change.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.090) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.060 CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.061 EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe laying
and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification C12-59-T
(or most current ASTM designation) except that no backfill shall be placed
until the work has been inspected.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.062 EXCAVATIONS; SAFETY MEASURES; RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Street
Superintendent, and any other governmental agency affected.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.140) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.063 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS; STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. All
cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-L-156, or most current federal
specification, not less than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring
and caulked tight. No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on
the jointing material until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (B)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between the pipe and metals shall
be made with approved hot-poured jointing material, approved rubber gaskets,
oakum and Sewertite, Am-Vit or an approved equal method and material.
   (C)   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of
160°F, nor be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage system. The
joint shall first be caulked tight with jute, hemp or similar approved
material. Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Superintendent.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if that branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located “Y”
branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y”
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent.
Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer
to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an
angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make the connection,
with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the
public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall
be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer,
but no higher than a point one-half the vertical distance between the invert
and the crown of the sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the
connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Superintendent. Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of a ten-inch
diameter line or larger into a public sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.120) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.064 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent, or his or her representative.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.130) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.065 SEWER PIPES NO LONGER IN USE.
   Whenever service pipes for sewer purposes are permanently no longer in use,
the property owner shall make a cut-off from the pipes at a point indicated by
the Superintendent of Water and Sewer, and the cut-off shall meet all
specifications required by the Superintendent of Water and Sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.28.142) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS
§ 55.080 PAYMENT FOR EXTENSION.
   (A)   The City Council shall first determine if an extension of a sewer main
is economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will be served by the extension. If the
extension is economically feasible, then the city may install and pay the cost
of the extension at the discretion of the City Council.
   (B)   If the city elects not to pay the cost of extending the sewer main,
then the person or persons desiring sewer service shall install the extension
at his, her or their own personal expense upon written consent by the City
Council.
   (C)   The city shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area such
as a subdivision being developed unless there are sufficient existing residents
or businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
(1986 Code, § 7.29.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.081 EXTENSION BY OTHER THAN CITY.
   If extension is installed by someone other than the city:
   (A)   The city must approve all plans and specifications for any extensions;
   (B)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
   (C)   Ownership, rights-of-way and title must be conveyed to the city for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the city. The city will maintain
the mains thereafter; and
   (D)   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City Council
the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(1986 Code, § 7.29.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
RATES
§ 55.095 RATES AND CHARGES; PAYMENT AND NONPAYMENT OF BILLS; LIEN AND
FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   For provisions on payment and nonpayment of bills, liens and foreclosure of
liens, see §§
54.075 through
54.088 and 55.165 through 55.183.
(1986 Code, § 7.30.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.096 USE OF SEWER WITHOUT USE OF WATER.
   For provisions on sewer use without the use of water, see §
55.175.
(1986 Code, § 7.30.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 55.110 DISCHARGE OF SPECIFIED WATERS INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.111 DISCHARGE OF SPECIFIED WATERS TO NATURAL OUTLETS OR STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer
or natural outlet.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.112 DISCHARGE OF SPECIFIED MATERIALS TO ANY PUBLIC SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, soil or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer; provided that the discharge of cyanides in any amount is subject
to the approval of the State Environmental Protection Agency and the city;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.113 DISCHARGE OF SPECIFIED SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED WITHOUT SUPERINTENDENT’S
APPROVAL.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that these wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to those factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing in excess of the following
concentrations and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes
exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material
received in the composite sewage at the treatment works exceeds the limits
established by the Superintendent for these materials.
Waste or Chemical Concentration (mg/l)
Waste or Chemical                                          Concentration (mg/l)
Boron                                                      1.0
Cadmium                                                    2.0
Chlorine demand                                            30.0
Chromium (hexavalent)                                      5.0
Chromium (trivalent)                                       10.0
Copper                                                     3.0
Cyanide                                                    2.0
Iron                                                       15.0
Lead                                                       0.1
Nickel                                                     3.0
Oil, grease and the like (carbon tetrachloride extraction) 100.0
Phenols                                                    0.5
Zinc                                                       2.0
 
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 10.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime (slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined in §
55.001.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.114 SPECIFIED WATERS AND WASTES SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF
SUPERINTENDENT; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT MAY BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having
the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight, of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in §
55.113; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment that may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
55.113; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of those waters or
wastes.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency, and no
construction of those facilities shall be commenced until approvals are
obtained in writing.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.115 ALTERNATIVES FOR ACTION WITH REGARD TO WASTE SUBSTANCES UNDER
SUPERINTENDENT’S REVIEW.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
55.113, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious affect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
55.119.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equivalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.060) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.116 INTERCEPTORS; REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that these interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and
watertight. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.070) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.117 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.080) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.118 MANHOLES; REQUIRED; INSTALLATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. A
manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.090) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.119 WATER SAMPLING; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected, provided the
Superintendent shall be permitted to take samples within the premises of the
user, including lagoons, ponds and other places. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
(1986 Code, § 7.32.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.120 POLICY FOR TREATMENT OF SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1986 Code, § 7.32.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE
§ 55.135 VANDALISM A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or no unauthorized person shall tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the
charge of disorderly conduct.
(1986 Code, § 7.34.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
53.999
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 55.150 INSPECTORS; ACCESS TO PROPERTY; AUTHORITY LIMITED.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent, or his or her representatives, shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1986 Code, § 7.36.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.151 INSPECTION; PROCEDURE.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
55.150, the Superintendent, or duly authorized employees of the city, shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as those may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
55.118.
(1986 Code, § 7.36.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.152 INSPECTORS; ACCESS TO EASEMENTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1986 Code, § 7.36.030) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE
§ 55.165 SEWER USER CHARGES.
   The charges for sewer services shall be made on a monthly basis, based on
the water meter readings for the same month of each year. The sewer service
charge for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of
the city shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance
plus replacement, a capital cost charge for depreciation and a surcharge and/or
rebate, if applicable.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.010) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.166 USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by water
meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal domestic
concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 174 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 204 mg/l.
   (B)   User charges shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and
maintenance costs, plus replacement, and a capital cost charge for depreciation
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement/depreciation fund
for the year for all works categories;
      (2)   Divide cost into fixed costs and treatment variable costs;
      (3)   Develop a fixed-cost flat monthly charge per user;
      (4)   Proportion the variable costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
      (5)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (6)   Proportion the variable costs to nonindustrial and industrial users
by volume, suspended solids and BOD;
      (7)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (8)   Compute surcharge costs per mg/l in excess of normal sewage
strength for BOD and SS.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.020) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.167 SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose BOD and SS exceed 174 mg/l and
204 mg/l, respectively. The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the 174 mg/
l and 204 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS, respectively. Section 55.172
specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.030)
§ 55.168 SERVICE CHARGE AUDIT.
   (A)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit
report.
   (B)   The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service, depreciation or a change in operation and maintenance
costs including replacement costs.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.040) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.169 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the nearest even increment of
1,000 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the city waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval by the city
and installation, these meters may not be removed without the consent of the
city, unless service is cancelled.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.050) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.170 BASIC USER RATE AND FACILITY CHARGE.
   (A)   Commencing August 1, 2022, for Year 1 (and on the first day of May for
each subsequent year) and for each subsequent corresponding Year (as set forth
below), the monthly sewer facility charge and the monthly usage rate for sewage
shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Sewage Rate
1    August 1, 2022  $4.50
2    May 1, 2023     $5.00
3    May 1, 2024     $5.25
4    May 1, 2025     $5.50
5    May 1, 2026     $5.75
 
   (B)   Commencing May 1, 2024, for Year 1 (and on the first day of May for
each subsequent year) and for each subsequent corresponding Year (as set forth
below), the monthly sewer facility charge shall be as follows:
 
Year Date Commencing Sewer Facility Charge
1    May 1, 2024     $18.00
2    May 1, 2025     $19.00
3    May 1, 2026     $20.00
4    May 1, 2027     $21.00
5    May 1, 2028     $22.00
 
(1986 Code, § 7.42.060) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984; Ord. 1428, passed - -1994;
Ord. 20-0714-219, passed 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-0728-221, passed 7-28-2020; Ord.
22-0726-291, passed 7-26-2022; Ord. 23-0228-324, passed 2-28-2023; Ord. 24-
0423-363, passed 4-23-2024)
§ 55.171 (RESERVED).
§ 55.172 (RESERVED).
§ 55.173 (RESERVED).
§ 55.174 REBATE.
   The city may at its discretion grant an equitable rebate or discount on each
and every bill for a particular billing period. This rebate shall be prorated
on each bill at a reduction in the basic user rate up to but not exceeding the
prorated share of capital cost charge per bill (§
55.170).
(1986 Code, § 7.42.100) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.175 NO WATER SERVICE SEWER RATE.
   For use of the sewer system by property owners living within the corporate
limits of the city, who have no water connection, a minimum charge of $60 per
year shall be made.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.110) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.176 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the sewage and water systems
shall be deposited in separate accounts by the City Clerk at the end of each
day the moneys are collected. Funds in these accounts shall be administered by
the city in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the state
Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   (B)   Bills shall be rendered on the first day of each month.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.120) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.177 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at
regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges do in fact provide the required revenues. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.130) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.178 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of §§
55.165 through
55.176, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be filed in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be deemed notice to all owners of
real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of the city on their
properties. Each user will be notified at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and the portion of the user charges which is
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.140) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.179 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA), United States
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) or their authorized representatives
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city’s system of user charges or industrial cost recovery
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general
conditions to any federal grant.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.150) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.180 CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Any user requesting a termination of service shall give written notice
to the city ten days prior to the time the termination of service is desired.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment for sewer service prior to the date of
termination shall be with the property owners as well as the user.
   (C)   There shall be no charge for transferring the sewer service to the
subsequent user.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.160) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.181 IMPOSED CHARGE ON RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLDS LOCATED OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Effective June 1, 1972, there shall be imposed upon each residential
household located outside the city limits of the city, which household is
connected to the city sewer system, an additional monthly charge of $5 per
month for the city’s capital cost charge account.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.170) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.182 IMPOSED CHARGE ON BUSINESS LOCATIONS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Effective June 1, 1972, there shall be imposed upon each business located
outside the city limits of the city which is connected to the city’s sewer
system, an additional monthly charge of $5 for the capital cost charge account.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.180) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.183 CHARGE INCLUDED ON MONTHLY UTILITY BILL.
   The charges stated in §§
55.173 through
55.175,
55.181 and
55.182 shall be included with the utility bills commencing with the first
utility bill sent out after June 1, 1972.
(1986 Code, § 7.42.190) (Ord. 1240, passed - -1984)
§ 55.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
      
75.   COMMERCIAL RELOCATION OF TRESPASSING VEHICLES
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
78.   GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Posting signs
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Animals or bicycles
   
70.05   Barricaded streets
 
   
70.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   State Vehicle Code, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council The Illinois Vehicle Code as
heretofore or hereafter amended as an ordinance regulating traffic and vehicles
in the city, which code is incorporated by reference herein, the same as if it
was set out at length and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
city.
(1986 Code, § 18.02.010)
§ 70.02 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police, or any person designated by him or her, the Mayor or
City Council or the city shall post, or cause to be posted, suitable signs to
regulate vehicles and traffic within the city as approved by the City Council
and in accordance with the laws of the state.
(1986 Code, § 18.04.010)
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Chief in command, or any firefighter designated by him or her, may
exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing traffic at
the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to an
emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in the
absence of or in assisting the police.
(1986 Code, § 18.04.020)
§ 70.04 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
(1986 Code, § 18.04.030)
§ 70.05 BARRICADED STREETS.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street or any part of the
city that has been roped, barricaded or otherwise marked or posted that
traveling is prohibited on the street or part of street.
(1986 Code, § 18.04.040) (Ord. 556, passed 4-24-1945) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any section of this title or failing to
comply therewith shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each
offense, except when a definite penalty is provided.
(1986 Code, § 18.04.050)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
Operation
   
71.01   Driving in a careless, negligent or dangerous manner
   
71.02   Excessive acceleration of motor vehicles
Engine Brakes
   
71.15   Prohibition
   
71.16   Posting signs
   
71.17   Not applicable to adequate sound muffling system
   
71.18   Defense
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION
§ 71.01 DRIVING IN A CARELESS, NEGLIGENT OR DANGEROUS MANNER.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless,
reckless or wanton manner, or carelessly as to endanger life or property.
(1986 Code, § 18.06.010) (Ord. 310, passed 1-2-1928) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to test the acceleration of a motor
vehicle; or accelerate a motor vehicle in a manner so as to squeal the rear
tires or spin the rear wheels; or race a motor vehicle even though below the
maximum speed limit, upon any public street or way within the city.
(1986 Code, § 18.06.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
ENGINE BRAKES
§ 71.15 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for the driver of a commercial
vehicle, or any vehicle equipped with an engine braking system to operate or
actuate any engine braking system that emits excessive noise within the city
limits.
(Ord. 11-0111-19, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 POSTING SIGNS.
   The employees of the city are hereby authorized to place signs within the
city limits which state, “Excessive Engine Braking Noise Prohibited.” These
signs may be placed in all locations necessary to provide proper notice that it
is a violation of this subchapter to operate any engine braking system that
emits excessive noise in the city.
(Ord. 11-0111-19, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 71.17 NOT APPLICABLE TO ADEQUATE SOUND MUFFLING SYSTEM.
   This subchapter does not apply to the use of an engine braking system that
has an adequate sound muffling system in proper working order that prevents
excessive noise.
(Ord. 11-0111-19, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 71.18 DEFENSE.
   It is a defense to an alleged violation of this subchapter if the driver
used an engine braking system that emits excessive noise in an emergency to
avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle on the highway.
(Ord. 11-0111-19, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Stop Intersections
   
72.01   Posting signs
   
72.02   Operation of vehicles
Yield Right-of-Way Intersections
   
72.15   Posting signs
   
72.16   Operation of vehicles
Speed Limits
   
72.30   Posting signs
   
72.31   Speed restrictions
   
72.32   Special speed limits while passing schools
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
72.45   Posting signs
Truck Tractor and Semitrailer Traffic
   
72.60   Posted signs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   One-way streets and alleys, see
Chapter 76, Schedule V
   Portable stop signs, see
Chapter 76, Schedule II
   Restricted truck tractor and semitrailer traffic, see
Chapter 76, Schedule VII
   Speed limits, see
Chapter 76, Schedule IV
   Stop intersections, see
Chapter 76, Schedule I
   Yield right-of-way intersections, see
Chapter 76, Schedule III
STOP INTERSECTIONS
§ 72.01 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of the Police Department of the city shall post or cause to be
posted suitable stop signs at intersections facing the traffic approaching
those intersections in the direction of travel as stated in
Chapter 76, Schedule I.
(1986 Code, § 18.12.020) (Ord. 941, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 72.02 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall stop in obedience to stop signs at those
intersections and shall proceed cautiously yielding the right-of-way to
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard unless traffic at
those intersections is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event
the directions of the police officer shall be complied with.
(1986 Code, § 18.12.030) (Ord. 941, passed 7-6-1971)
YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS
§ 72.15 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of the Police Department of the city shall post or cause to be
posted suitable yield right-of-way signs at intersections facing the traffic
approaching the intersections in the direction of travel as stated in
Chapter 76, Schedule III.
(1986 Code, § 18.14.020) (Ord. 941, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 72.16 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle in obedience to the yield right-of-way signs shall
reduce the speed of his or her vehicle and shall yield right-of-way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersecting streets either from the right or
left or which are approaching so closely to those intersections as to
constitute a hazard; but the driver having so yielded may proceed at a time as
a safe interval occurs. If a driver is involved in a collision at an
intersection or interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving
past a yield right-of-way sign, the collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(1986 Code, § 18.14.030) (Ord. 941, passed 7-6-1971; Ord. 20-0512-211, passed
5-12-2020)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 72.30 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police, or some person designated by him or her, shall post or
cause to be posted suitable signs indicating the speed limit.
(1986 Code, § 18.16.020) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-28-1975)
§ 72.31 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the state, or the county, in an urban district within
the city at a speed in excess of 30 mph, or in an alley at a speed in excess of
15 mph; provided that if the Mayor and Council by ordinance, sets other limits
as provided by statute after an engineering or traffic survey, then that limit
shall govern the rate of speed on the street indicated in the ordinance. The
Superintendent of Streets shall post appropriate signs showing the speed
limits.
   (B)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the city under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works
and Buildings, or of the county, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for
that street.
(1986 Code, § 18.16.040) (Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while
passing the school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or
across which children pass going to and from school during school days when
school children are present.
(1986 Code, § 18.16.050) Penalty, see §
72.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 72.45 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police of the city, or some other person designated by him or
her, shall erect or cause to be erected suitable traffic signs indicating the
restriction of travel on streets or alleys designated one-way under
Chapter 76, Schedule V.
(1986 Code, § 18.18.020) (Ord. 1274, passed - -1985; Ord. 1377, passed - -1992)
TRUCK TRACTOR AND SEMITRAILER TRAFFIC
§ 72.60 POSTED SIGNS.
   The Police Department of the city shall post or cause to be posted suitable
“No Truck Tractor and Semitrailer Traffic” signs at the locations facing the
traffic approaching locations in the direction of travel on roadways.
(1986 Code, § 18.23.020) (Ord. 1386, passed - -1992)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Parking within parking lanes
   
73.02   Parking tractor, semitrailer, trailer, float or bus; abatement
   
73.03   Parking motor vehicle which cannot be moved under its own power and
trailer not connected with vehicle
   
73.04   Proof of person in control of vehicle at time of parking
   
73.05   Posting signs
   
73.06   Removal and storage
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Designated no parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I
   Double parking, see
Chapter 77, Schedule IX
   Five-minute parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule VI
   Loading zones, see
Chapter 77, Schedule X
   One-hour parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule III
   Passenger car only parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule VIII
   Restricted parking; time and day, see
Chapter 77, Schedule VII
   Ten-minute parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule V
   Thirty-minute parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule II
   Two-hour parking areas, see
Chapter 77, Schedule IV
§ 73.01 PARKING WITHIN PARKING LANES.
   All vehicles parked on streets that have parking lanes marked thereon shall
be parked inside of the lanes.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.020) (Ord. 439, passed 5-17-1938)
§ 73.02 PARKING TRACTOR, SEMITRAILER, TRAILER, FLOAT OR BUS; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a tractor, semitrailer, trailer, float
or bus in any street in the city for a longer period than four continuous
hours.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section is hereby declared to
be a nuisance which may be abated by any police officer removing or having
removed the vehicle to any authorized garage and the costs of removal shall
constitute a lien upon the vehicle.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.030) (Ord. 986, passed 11-5-1968) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLE WHICH CANNOT BE MOVED UNDER ITS OWN POWER AND
TRAILER NOT CONNECTED WITH VEHICLE.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle in the streets of the city for a period
of longer than two hours when the motor vehicle is not in a condition that it
can be removed from that place under its own power, and no person shall park
any trailer on any streets or parkways of the city for longer than two hours
when the trailer is not connected with a motor truck or vehicle capable of
moving the trailer.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.040) (Ord. 546, passed 3-7-1944) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PROOF OF PERSON IN CONTROL OF VEHICLE AT TIME OF PARKING.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that the person was in
control of the vehicle at the time of the parking.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.050) (Ord. 938, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 73.05 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of the Police Department of the city shall post or cause to be
posted suitable no parking signs at locations facing the traffic approaching
locations in the direction of travel on roadways.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.120)
§ 73.06 REMOVAL AND STORAGE.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter is hereby declared a
nuisance which may be abated by any police officer removing or causing to be
removed the vehicle to any authorized garage and the costs of the removal and
storage shall constitute a lien upon the vehicle. The vehicle shall be restored
to the owner or operator upon payment of the costs of removal and storage.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.130)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 74: ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Chief of Police may authorize removal of vehicles; when; payment of
towing charges
   
74.03   Record of motor vehicles towed away
   
74.04   Determining ownership of vehicle; notification
   
74.05   Reclaimed vehicle; expenses
   
74.06   Antique automobile exempt from this chapter
   
74.07   Report of reclaiming or disposing of vehicle
   
74.08   Liability for damages
   
74.09   Administrative fees and procedures for impounding motor vehicles for
specified violations
Abandoned Vehicles
   
74.20   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
74.21   Abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle; notification to Municipal
Police Department
Sale of Unclaimed Vehicles
   
74.35   Sale of unclaimed vehicle seven years of age or newer; notice
   
74.36   Sale of unclaimed vehicle seven years of age or newer without notice
   
74.37   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle of more than seven years of age
   
74.38   Proceeds from sale or disposition
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the city.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.010) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.02 CHIEF OF POLICE MAY AUTHORIZE REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; WHEN; PAYMENT OF
TOWING CHARGES.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this municipality ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this municipality.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this
municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this municipality,
the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.040) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.03 RECORD OF MOTOR VEHICLES TOWED AWAY.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.050) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.04 DETERMINING OWNERSHIP OF VEHICLE; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   When the Municipal Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information.
   (C)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of the owner.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.060) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.05 RECLAIMED VEHICLE; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.070) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.06 ANTIQUE AUTOMOBILE EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.110) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.07 REPORT OF RECLAIMING OR DISPOSING OF VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.120) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.08 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.140) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.09 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLES FOR
SPECIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the offices of city hall are open to
the public for a minimum of seven hours.
      (2)   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Two hundred dollars.
      (3)   LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. One hundred dollars.
      (4)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
      (5)   OWNER OF RECORD. The record titleholder(s) of the motor vehicle as
registered with the secretary of state, state of Illinois; or if not registered
in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered.
   (B)   Violations authorizing impoundment.
      (1)   (a)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner of record, that is used in connection with the
following violations that is operated or used in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized or
forfeited pursuant to Section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of record of said
motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a level 1 administrative fee, as
provided for in this section, in addition to any towing and storage fees as
hereinafter provided.
State Statute Violations
State   Violations
Statute
625
ILCS 5/ Driving while license revoked
6-303
625
ILCS 5/ Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer
11-204
625
ILCS 5/ Driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs
11-501
625
ILCS 5/ Reckless driving or aggravated reckless driving
11-503
625
ILCS 5/ Street racing
11-506
625
ILCS 5/ Speeding in excess of 40 mph class A misdemeanor
11-
601.5
720
ILCS 5/ Indecent solicitation of a child
11-6
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated assault
12-2
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated battery
12-4
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated battery with a firearm
12-4.2
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated battery of a child
12-4.3
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated battery of a senior citizen
12-4.6
720
ILCS 5/ Retail theft of merchandise exceeding $150 value
16A-3
720
ILCS 5/ Robbery
18-1
720
ILCS 5/ Armed robbery
18-2
720
ILCS 5/ Burglary
19-1
720
ILCS 5/ Residential burglary
19-3
720
ILCS 5/ Arson
20-1
720
ILCS 5/ Aggravated arson
20-1.1
720
ILCS 5/ Possession of explosives or incendiary devices
20-2
720
ILCS 5/ Criminal damage to property
21-1
720
ILCS 5/ Mob action
25-1
720
ILCS    Manufacture or delivery unauthorized controlled substance
570/401
720
ILCS    Controlled substance trafficking
570/
401.1
720
ILCS    Unauthorized possession under the controlled substances act
570/402
720
ILCS    Possession of more than ten grams of any substances containing cannabis
550/4
720
ILCS    Manufacture or delivery of cannabis
550/5
720
ILCS    Cannabis trafficking
550/5.1
720
ILCS    Delivery of cannabis on school grounds
550/5.2
720
ILCS    Person 18 or older using, engaging or employing persons under 18 to deliver
570/    controlled, counterfeit, or look-alike substances
407.1
720
ILCS    Delivery of a controlled substance to a pregenant woman
570/
407.2
720
ILCS 5/ Reckless discharge of a firearm
24-1.5
        Drivers must have licenses or permits only: * if the period of expiration is
625     greater than one year ** of the operation or use of motor vehicle, if the
ILCS 5/ driver has not been issued a driver’s license or permit *** if the person who
6-101   is operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license
        or permit due to a person’s age
720
ILCS    Unlawful use of cannabis-based product manufacturing equipment
550/5.3
720
ILCS    Calculated criminal cannabis conspiracy
550/9
720
ILCS    Chemical breakdown of illicit controlled substance
570/
401.5
720
ILCS    Look-alike substances; manufacture, distribution, advertisement of possession
570/404
720
ILCS    Calculated criminal drug conspiracy
570/405
720
ILCS    Street gang criminal drug conspiracy
570/
405.2
720
ILCS    Miscellaneous violations
570/406
720
ILCS    Unauthorized possession of prescription form
570/
406.2
720     Delivery of controlled counterfeit or look-alike substances; persons under 18;
ILCS    truck stops or safety rest areas; school property; places of religious worship
570/407
720
ILCS    Unauthorized production or possession of cannabis sativa plant
550/8
720
ILCS 5/ Unlawful use of weapons
24-1
720
ILCS 5/ Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
24-3.1
720
ILCS 5/ Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on the premises of a school
24-3.3
 
         (b)   The following types of motor vehicles shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of record of said motor
vehicle shall be liable to the city for a Level 1 administrative fee, as
provided for in this section, in addition to any towing and storage fees as
provided herein: any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner of record and where:
            1.   The operation or use of the motor vehicle is by a person
against whom a warrant has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for
failing to answer charges that the driver violated Section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-
501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
            2.   The operation or use of the motor vehicle is by a person using
the motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense
used in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the
Criminal Code of 2012.
      (2)   For any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner of record, that is used in connection with any
custodial violations not listed in division (1) of this division, but still
results in seizure and impoundment by the city, the owner of record of said
motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a Level 2 administrative fee, as
provided for in this section, in addition to any towing and storage fees as
hereinafter provided.
      (3)   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee
is posted with the police department, the impounded motor vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record, unless an administrative hearing is requested,
in which case the bond requirements under division (D)(6) apply.
   (C)   Seizure and impoundment.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility
approved by the city. This section shall not apply if the motor vehicle used in
the violation was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the
appropriate police authorities within 24 hours after the theft was discovered
or reasonably should have been discovered.
      (2)   The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as
the owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of
the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a
person, of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner’s right to
request an administrative hearing to be conducted under this section.
   (D)   Administrative hearing.
      (1)   At the time of impoundment or within five business days after a
motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this section, the city shall
notify by personal service or by certified mail to the owner of record of the
owner’s right to request a hearing before the city Municipal Court to challenge
the legality of the seizure. The owner of record seeking a hearing must file a
written request for a hearing before the city Municipal Court with the chief of
police, or his designee, no later than five business days, if the notice was
served by personal service; and no later than ten business days if the notice
was mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled for the following month’s
regular scheduled Municipal Court day. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence
shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
      (2)   All hearings conducted pursuant to this section shall be held by
the Municipal Court Judge (hereinafter, “hearing officer”) at the city
Municipal Court, except for matters that are subject to judicial review.
      (3)   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in violation of
state statute as enumerated and set forth under division (B)(1) above or was
legally seized in connection with any custodial violation, as set forth and
described under division (B)(2) above, then the hearing officer shall enter an
order finding the owner of record of the motor vehicle liable to the city for
the applicable administrative fee plus costs of the Municipal Court.
      (4)   If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in such a
violation, or was not legally seized, the hearing officer shall enter an order
finding for the owner and for the return of the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at
the hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of
record shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the
hearing officer shall enter a default judgement in favor of the city in the
amount of the administrative fee plus costs of the Municipal Court and shall
order the owner of record to pay to the city said administrative fee, plus
costs of the Municipal Court. However, if the owner of record pays such
administrative fee plus costs of the Municipal Court and the motor vehicle is
returned to the owner, no default order needs to be entered if the owner is
informed of his or her right to a hearing in which case an order of liability
shall be deemed to have been made when the city receives proof that the owner
was notified of his/her right to a hearing.
      (6)   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee
plus costs of the Municipal Court is posted with the police department, the
impounded motor vehicle shall be released to the owner of record. The owner of
the motor vehicle shall still be liable to the towing agent for any applicable
towing fees.
      (7)   If an administrative fee plus costs of the Municipal Court are
imposed by the hearing officer against the owner of record, any bond posted
will be forfeited to the city; however if a violation of law, as set forth in
division (B)(1) above, or if the legality of the seizure, as set forth in
division (B)(2) above is not proven by preponderance of the evidence, the bond
will be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant
to this section shall be held by the city until the hearing officer issues a
decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until the court of jurisdiction
issues its orders.
   (E)   Disposition of impounded motor vehicle.
      (1)   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this section plus any
applicable Municipal Court costs, that are imposed, shall constitute a debt due
and owing the city. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall
remain impounded until:
         (a)   The administrative fee is paid to the city and all applicable
towing fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of record
shall be given possession of the motor vehicle unless, the owner of record has
made a request for a hearing before the Municipal Court, in which case the
owner of record shall pay the bond as set forth in this division (E), under
division (b) below.
         (b)   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative fee,
plus Municipal Court cost of $100 is posted with the police department and all
applicable towing fees are paid to the towing agent, at which time the motor
vehicle will be released to the owner of record; or
         (c)   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned in which case the motor
vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition
of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (F)   Motor vehicle possession. Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed
within 30 days after the expiration of the time during which the owner of
record may seek judicial review of the city’s action under this section, or the
time at which a final judgement is rendered against an owner of record who is
in default, may be disposed of as an unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by
law, provided, however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state
or federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be
disposed of by the city except as consistent with those proceedings.
   (G)   Towing agency.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession
of the motor vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the police department
confirming compliance with the foregoing requirements, and retain photocopies
of that documentation in their files for a period of not less than six months
following release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made
available to the authorities of the city for inspection and copying, upon their
request, by the towing or storage company. The towing or storage company is
prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may tow within the city until
and unless they obtain documentation as aforesaid.
      (2)   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a
reasonable fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such
motor vehicle prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to
cover the cost of removing said motor vehicle and, in addition thereto, the
cost of storage of said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that
said motor vehicle shall have remained stored.
      (3)   The fees and costs mentioned in this section shall be in addition
to any fee levied or assessed against the owner or operator of said motor
vehicle by reason of violation of any ordinance or statute and any arrest which
may have resulted from such violation.
   (H)   Deposits of administrative fees and Municipal Court costs.
      (1)   The administrative fees collected herein shall be deposited in the
city’s Police Department Fund.
      (2)   The Municipal Court costs collected herein shall be deposited in
the city’s Municipal Court Fund.
   (I)   Refund of administrative fee. In the event a judgement of not guilty
is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction on all underlying charges that
could have resulted in the impoundment of a motor vehicle, then within 30 days
upon presentation of a certified copy of said judgement to the city Police
Department, any administrative fees or posted bonds obtained by the city shall
be refunded to the paying party.
(Ord. 21-1026-269, passed 10-26-2021)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 74.20 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the
general public, anywhere in this municipality is unlawful except on property of
the owner or bailee of the abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
Chief of Police Department of the municipality, after a waiting period of seven
days or more has expired.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.020) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.21 ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLE; NOTIFICATION TO MUNICIPAL
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, that person shall immediately notify the
municipal Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the municipality.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notification, the Chief of the Municipal Police
Department shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of
the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
   (C)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.030) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
§ 74.35 SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE SEVEN YEARS OF AGE OR NEWER; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the
Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle. This notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.080) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.36 SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE SEVEN YEARS OF AGE OR NEWER WITHOUT NOTICE.
   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally entitled
to possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age
or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this chapter, the
vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the manner authorized
by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to possession of the vehicle.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.090) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.37 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE OF MORE THAN SEVEN YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the United States mail, a public service or in person for a
determination of disposition and an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
   (B)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.100) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.38 PROCEEDS FROM SALE OR DISPOSITION.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.130) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not
exceeding $500. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such.
(1986 Code, § 18.20.150) (Ord. 964, passed 6-6-1972)
CHAPTER 75: COMMERCIAL RELOCATION OF TRESPASSING VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Consent to towing; lien
   
75.02   Definitions
   
75.03   Requirements and prohibitions
   
75.04   Written notice of removal
   
75.05   Registration and fee
   
75.06   Insurance requirement for relocator
   
75.07   Authorization for removal
   
75.08   Relocator fees
   
75.09   Enforcement of lien
   
75.10   No limitation on other liability
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 CONSENT TO TOWING; LIEN.
   (A)   Every person expending labor, services or skill upon or furnishing
storage for any vehicle with the consent of its owner, authorized agent of the
owner, or the lawful possessor thereof, in the amount to $200 or less, shall
have a lien upon the vehicle beginning upon the date of commencement of the
expenditure of labor, services, skill or furnishing storage until the
possession of the vehicle is voluntarily relinquished to the owner or
authorized agent, or to one entitled to the possession thereof.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, a person consents to removal by
towing of his or her vehicle when that person, without authorization, parks the
vehicle upon private property while having notice that unauthorized vehicles
will be towed from that property by the owner of the property, or agent
thereof, at the vehicle owner’s expense.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, a person consents to removal by
towing of his or her vehicle when that person parks the vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city on public property or public right-of-way where
towing is authorized by this chapter, thereby consents to the removal or towing
of the vehicle and to the payment of towing and storage fees to the relocator
performing those services prior to the release of the vehicle.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.010) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real property owned or controlled by a person other than a
governmental authority.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of the private or public property or the manager,
agent, employee of the owner or the person lawfully in possession or control of
the private property. For the purposes of this chapter, AGENT shall not mean
and include the commercial relocator contracted with by the PROPERTY OWNER for
the commercial relocation of vehicles.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real property owned or controlled by a governmental entity
and shall include areas where public parking spaces are provided.
   RELOCATION SERVICE or SERVICE or RELOCATOR. Any person or entity engaged in
the business of removing trespassing vehicles by means of towing or otherwise,
and thereafter relocating and storing those vehicles.
   RELOCATOR. Any person or entity engaged in the business of removing
trespassing vehicles from private or public property by means of towing or
otherwise, and thereafter relocating and storing vehicles.
   TRESPASSING VEHICLE. Any vehicle parked on private or public property where
the owner or operator of that vehicle does not have authorization to park that
vehicle or where the owner or operator of the vehicle exceeds the
authorization.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. Any vehicle parked on private property where the owner
or operator of that vehicle does not have permission to park that vehicle.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.020) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.03 REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any relocator to:
   (A)   Operate in this city as a relocator or service without first
registering with the City Clerk upon forms provided by the City Clerk;
   (B)   Operate on the streets and roadways of this city any vehicle used for
the commercial relocation of trespassing vehicles unless there is painted or
firmly affixed to the vehicle on both sides thereof in a color or colors
vividly contrasting to the color of the vehicle, the name, address and
telephone number of the operator thereof;
   (C)   Remove any vehicle from private or public property without having
first obtained the written authorization of the property owner as provided in §
75.07;
   (D)   Remove any vehicle from property for which signs are required and on
which the required signs are not posted pursuant to §
75.04;
   (E)   Remove a vehicle when the owner or operator of the vehicle is present
or arrives at the vehicle location at any time prior to the completion of
removal, and is willing and able to remove the vehicle immediately;
   (F)   Remove a trespassing vehicle without informing the Police Department
within one hour of the removal;
   (G)   Fail to file with the City Clerk the signed relocation authorization
forms within seven days of the removal; and
   (H)   Remove any vehicle, otherwise in accordance with this chapter, more
than two miles from its location when towed.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.030) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.04 WRITTEN NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for a
relocator to remove a trespassing vehicle from private property unless written
notice is provided to the effect that the vehicles will be removed. The written
notice shall include the name, address and telephone number of the relocator or
relocators used by the owner and shall state the amount of the charges to which
the person may be subject. The notice shall consist of a sign or signs placed
in an unobstructed and conspicuous place in the affected area from which
unauthorized vehicles are to be towed and shall be at least 24 inches in height
by 36 inches in width at least four feet from the ground but not more than
eight feet from the ground and shall be either illuminated, or painted with
reflective paint, or both.
   (B)   The notice provisions of division (A) above shall not be required
under this section in the following circumstances where towing is otherwise
authorized:
      (1)   From public property or residential property which, having due
regard to the circumstances and the surrounding area, is clearly reserved or
intended exclusively for the use or occupation of vehicles belonging to
residents or official governmental vehicles;
      (2)   From any property clearly intended for a use other than parking; or
      (3)   From public property which is posted with a conspicuous limitation
on parking.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means buildings
containing five or less dwelling units.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.040) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.05 REGISTRATION AND FEE.
   Every relocator shall register annually with the City Clerk on or before
April 30, upon forms provided by the City Clerk. An annual fee of $25 shall be
paid by the relocator. The registration shall not be required where the
relocator limits its service to the removal of vehicles at the request of the
owner or operator of vehicles. A certificate of insurance shall be submitted by
each relocator at the time of registration to the City Clerk with the coverage
valid through the term of the relocator’s one-year registration. The
registration fee shall be waived when a relocator names the city an additional
named insured on its insurance policy or bond.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.050) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.06 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT FOR RELOCATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any relocator to operator a relocation
service without an insurance policy or bond in full force and effect insuring
or indemnifying the relocator for its liability in the following minimums:
      (1)   For injury to person, in an amount not less than $100,000 to any
one person and $300,000 for any one accident;
      (2)   In case of damage to property other than a vehicle being removed,
in an amount not less than $50,000 for any one accident; and
      (3)   In case of damage to any vehicle relocated or stored by relocator
in an amount not less than $15,000 per vehicle.
   (B)   The insurance policy or bond shall be issued by an insurance of
bonding company qualified to do business in the state.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.060) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.07 AUTHORIZATION FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Except in the case of vehicles towed by order of the Police
Department, no relocator may remove a trespassing vehicle without having a
relocation authorization form filled out and signed by the person who is
requesting the removal. These forms shall be signed and dated at the time of
removal. No pre-signed forms shall be used. The relocation authorization shall
be those provided by the City Clerk to the relocator at a reasonable cost.
   (B)   No relocator shall remove a trespassing vehicle from private property
unless the person requesting the removal has an interest in the private
property.
   (C)   In addition to other penalties provided for in this code and in
addition to other chapters of this code authorizing towing, any police officer
or person designated by the Police Chief may authorize removal of a vehicle
from public property by towing by a relocator when the vehicle is parked
contrary to the provisions of this code and:
      (1)   Where an official sign is posted designating the area as a tow-away
zone; or
      (2)   Where the vehicle is parked so as to constitute or cause:
         (a)   An obstruction to the delivery of municipal or emergency
services;
         (b)   An obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
         (c)   A clear and present danger to health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   Issuance of a parking ticket shall not be a prerequisite for vehicle
removal authorized by this section.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.070) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.08 RELOCATOR FEES.
   (A)   A relocator may charge rates not to exceed $35 for the commercial
towing or removal of trespassing vehicles from private or public property.
   (B)   In addition, a relocator may charge a rate for the storage, for
periods in excess of 72 hours, of vehicles in connection with the towing or
removal which shall not exceed $2 per day or any part of a day. However, no
relocator shall impose charges for storage for the first 72 hours after towing
or removal.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.080) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.09 ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN.
   (A)   Unless the trespassing vehicle towed or removed by the relocator from
private or public property pursuant to this chapter is redeemed within 90 days
of the completion of the expenditure of the labor, services, skill or
furnishing storage, the lien may be enforced by a public sale of the vehicle in
the manner provided by the Labor and Storage Lien (Small Amount) Act, ILCS Ch.
770, Act 50.
   (B)   In no event shall the lien created in this chapter be greater than the
rate or rates established in accordance with §
75.01.
   (C)   In no event shall the lien be increased or altered to reflect any
charge for services or materials rendered in addition to those authorized by
this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.090) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.10 NO LIMITATION ON OTHER LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or alter the vehicle
owner’s or operator’s civil or criminal liability for trespass.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.100) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$35 and not more than $500 per day or per removal.
(1986 Code, § 5.17.110) (Ord. 1269, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Portable stop signs
      
III.   Yield right-of-way intersections
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   One-way streets and alleys
      
VI.   Limited load bridges
      
VII.   Restricted truck tractor and semitrailer traffic
      
VIII.   Yellow caution lights
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections in the city, are designated as “Stop
Intersections” for vehicles traveling in the direction indicated:
Location of Intersection Direction of Travel Ord. Date Passed
Location of     Direction of Travel              Ord.            Date Passed
Intersection
East Court
Street and      North–south–east–west      13-1022-60      10-22-2013
Northeast
Fourth Street
East Johnson
Street and Park South
Avenue
East King
Street and                                       09-1208-19; 13- 12-8- 2009; 8-
Southeast       North–south                    0813-57         13-2013
Second Street;
4-way stop
East Washington
Street and      East                             988             8-14-1973
Northeast
Seventh Street
Enterprise Road South
and Cemetery
Epworth Street
and Parkhurst   North and south
Street
Epworth Street
and Sluder      North–south–east–west      1635            11-22-2005
Street; 4-way
stop
Epworth Street
and West Curry  North and south                  1589            2-10-2004
Street; 4-way
stop
Esther Road and
Northwest       East
Seventh Street
Frontier Drive
and Mt. Vernon  North
Road
George Street   East and west
and Darr Street
George Street
and Sluder      North–south–east–west
Street
Industrial
Drive and       East
Frontier Drive
Intersection of
alley
connecting West
Delaware Street
and Center      North–south
Street between
South First
Street and
Southwest
Second Street
Intersection of
Epworth Street  North–south–east–west
and Sluder
Street
Intersection of
Florence Drive  North–south–east–west
and Lakeview
Drive
Intersection of
Hawkins Drive   North–south–east–west
and Lakeview
Drive
Intersection of
Northwest
Twelfth Street  South-west
and Harding
Street
Lakeview Drive                                   941;            7-6-1971;
and Florence    East and west                    1061            - -1977
Drive
Laurel Street
and Curry       North–south–east–west
Street
Laurel Street   North–south–east–west
and Darr Street
Laurel Street   North–south–east–west
and Elm Street
Laurel Street
and French      East and west                    23-0725-336     7-25-2023
Street
Laurel Street
and Parkhurst   North–south–east–west
Street
Laurel Street
and Sibley      North and south                  1587            12-22-2003
Street; 4-way
stop
Leininger Road
and Airport     North
Road
Leininger Road
and Clarence    West
Avenue
Leininger Road
and Southwest   North–south–east–west
Tenth Street
Market Street
and Industrial  North and south
Drive
Market Street
and Old Mt.     North
Vernon Road
Mt. Vernon Road
and Northwest   East
Seventh Street
North First
Street and East West
Court Street
North First
Street and Elm  East
Street
North First
Street and      North–south–east–west
Parkhurst
Street
Northeast
Fourth Street   West-south-north
and Court
Street
Northeast
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Johnson
Street
Northeast
Second Street   North and south
and Court
Street
Northeast Third
Street and      South and east
Court Street
Northwest
Eleventh Street East
and Adams
Street
Northwest
Eleventh Street North                            996             - -1974
and Harding
Street
Northwest
Eleventh Street
and Harding     North–east–west              1636            11-22-2005
Street; 3-way
stop
Northwest Ninth
Street and Mt.  North–south–east–west
Vernon Road
Northwest
Seventh Street  West
and Elm Street
Northwest Sixth
Street and Elm  North and west
Street
Northwest Tenth
Street and City North and south
Street
Northwest Tenth
Street and Mt.  North and south
Vernon Road
Northwest Tenth
Street and Old  North–south–east–west      977             - -1972
Mt. Vernon Road
Northwest Tenth
Street and West North–south–east–west      1616            11-23-2004
Water Street;
4-way stop
Northwest
Twelfth Street  East                             15-1222- 104    12-22-2015
and Ligo Lane
Park Road,
Jasper Road and
Enterprise      Northeast–east–west–north–
Road, just      south–southwest                09-1110-17      11-10-2009
north of Maple
Hill Cemetery;
3-way stop
Rosewood Lane
and Southwest   East
Seventh Street
Sibley Street
and Epworth     East and west                    1587            12-22-2003
Street; 4-way
stop
Southeast Fifth
Street and      North and south
Center Street
Southeast
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Center
Street
Southeast
Fourth Street   East and west
and Center
Street
Southeast
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Douglas
Street
Southeast
Fourth Street   East and west
and King Street
Southeast
Second Street   North and south
and Center
Street
Southeast Sixth
Street and      North and south
Center Street
Southeast Sixth
Street and      North–south–east–west      1276            - -1986
Douglas Street
Southeast Third
Street and      North and south
Center Street
Southwest
Eleventh Street East and west
and Leininger
Road
Southwest Fifth
Street and      East and west
Center Street
Southwest Fifth
Street and      North and south
College Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North and south
and Center
Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Center
Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Douglas
Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and Highland
Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North–south–east–west
and King Street
Southwest
Fourth Street   North
and Railroad
Southwest
Second Street   North–south–east–west
and Center
Street
Southwest
Second Street   North–south–west
and Center
Street
Southwest
Second Street   East and west
and Douglas
Street
Southwest
Second Street   North–south–east–west
and Douglas
Street
Southwest
Second Street   South
and King Street
Southwest
Seventh Street  North–south–east–west      950             - -1971
and Center
Street
Southwest
Seventh Street  North and south
and Center
Street
Southwest
Seventh Street  East and west
and King Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      North and south
Center Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      North–south–east–west
College Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      North and south
Spring Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      East and west                    1035            - -1976
Spring Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      North–south–east–west
Spring Street
Southwest Sixth
Street and      North-south-east-west            1626            4-26-2005
Wayne Street;
4-way stop
Southwest South
Street and King North and south
Street
Southwest Third
Street and      North–south–east–west
Center Street
Southwest Third
Street and      North and south
Center Street
Southwest Third
Street and      North–south–east–west
Douglas Street
Southwest Third
Street and      North and south
Douglas Street
Southwest Third
Street and King South                            1021            5-27-1975
Street
West Broadway
and Southwest   West
Sixth Street
West Highland
Street and      West
Southwest Sixth
Street
West Parkhurst
Street and      East and west                    1589            2-10-2004
Epworth Street;
4-way stop
 
(1986 Code, § 18.12.010) (Ord. 1482, passed - -; Ord. 1350, passed - -1989;
Ord. 1398, passed - -1993; Ord. 1422, passed - -1994; Ord. 1425, passed - -
1994; Ord. 1446, passed - -1995; Ord. passed - -1996; Ord. 1477, passed - -
1996; Ord. 1505, passed - -1998; Ord. 1546, passed - -2001; Ord. 1551, passed -
-2001; Ord. 1560, passed - -2002; Ord. 1561, passed - -2002; Ord. 1567, passed
- -2003) Penalty, see §
72.99(A)
SCHEDULE II. PORTABLE STOP SIGNS.
   The Chief of the Police Department of the city, or any person designated by
him or her, is hereby authorized to place a portable stop sign at the
intersection of North First Street and Sluder Avenue facing traffic traveling
north and south, which stop sign may be so placed during school hours or school
activities at the Northside Grade School or immediately prior or subsequent to
school hours or activities, and the driver of any vehicle shall stop in
obedience to the stop signs at the intersection and shall proceed cautiously
yielding right-of-way to vehicles which are within the intersection in
approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard to traffic and
yield right-of-way to pedestrians unless traffic at the intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(1986 Code, § 18.12.050) (Ord. 1021, passed 5-27-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections in the city are designated as “Yield Right-of-
Way Intersections” for vehicles traveling in the direction indicated:
Location of Intersection Direction of Travel Ord. Date Passed
Location of Intersection          Direction of Travel Ord.        Date Passed
Cail Road and Lezlie Lane         North               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Jill Road and Lezlie Lane         North               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Kincaid Drive and Lezlie Lane     South               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Kincaid Drive and Scott Lane      North               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Kincaid Drive and Summer Street   East                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Lakeview Drive and Atkinson Drive East                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Lakeview Drive and Shoreway Drive South               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Leininger Road and Center Street  East                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Northwest Fifth Street and East   West                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Sibley Street
Northwest Sixth Street and Summit East/West           23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Street
Park Avenue and Park Lane         South               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Southwest Fifth Street and E.     North/South         23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Douglas Street
Southwest Sixth Street and W.     East                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
College Street
Summer Street and Neal Street     North               23-0808-339 8-8-2023
West Parkhurst Street and George  East                23-0808-339 8-8-2023
Street
 
(1986 Code, § 18.14.010) (Ord. 1276, passed - -1986; Ord. 23-0725-336, passed
7-25-2023; Ord. 23-0808-339, passed 8-8-2023)  Penalty, see §
72.99(B)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on North First Street
between Court Street and North Street at a speed in excess of 20 mph. The fact
that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
on the street does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing intersections or to avoid an accident with any person
or vehicle and does not relieve the driver of any vehicle from the duty to
decrease speed or stop so as to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians in a
crosswalk.
(1986 Code, § 18.16.010) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-28-1975)
   (B)   The speed limit in the alley running north and south between Elm
Street and Summit Street which lies directly east of Lots 1, 12, 13, 24, and 25
in Rinard’s Addition is five miles per hour.
(Ord. 13-1126-62, passed 11-26-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99(C)
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   A vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated below on the
following streets and alleys within the city limits of the city (which streets
and alleys are designated as one-way):
 
                                                                                 One-Way
Location of Street or Alley                                                      Direction
                                                                                 of
                                                                                 Traffic
Alley between Lots 1 and 20 of U.S. Staley’s Addition to the city and Outlot No.
7 of Turney’s Second Addition to the city in the 300 block of Southeast SeventhWest
Street, which alley runs east and west between Southeast Seventh Street and
Southeast Eighth Street
Alley between Lots 9 and 10 of Stewart’s Addition to the city in the 100 block
of West Main Street, which alley runs north and south from West Main Street on   North
the north to the United Methodist Church parking lot on the south
Alley running east and west between North First Street and Northeast Second      West
Street between Lots 3 and 4 and between Lots 11 and 12 in E.T. Hall’s Addition
East Water Street from North First Street to Northeast Second Street             East
 
(1986 Code, § 18.18.010) (Ord. 1274, passed - -1985; Ord. 1377, passed - -1992;
Ord. 1478, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
72.99(D)
SCHEDULE VI. LIMITED LOAD BRIDGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on the bridge on Northeast
Fourth Street between Johnson Street and Mill Street in the city, when the
gross weight on the surface of the bridge through any axle of the vehicle
exceeds seven tons. On any street or bridge where the weight of vehicles
permitted on the street or bridge is limited by ordinance and the signs
indicating those limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a
vehicle in excess of that weight on that street or bridge.
(1986 Code, § 18.22.010)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
schedule shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each offense.
(1986 Code, § 18.22.020)
SCHEDULE VII. RESTRICTED TRUCK TRACTOR AND SEMITRAILER TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to drive a truck trailer and semitrailer
on any city street or alley at the following locations in the city, designated
“No Truck Tractor and Semitrailer Traffic Roads:”
 
Location                                                                 Restriction Ord. Date
                                                                                          Passed
West Water Street between Northwest Ninth Street and the northerly       No truck
extension of the west line of the Martin and Bailey Big John’s Grocery trailer and 1386 - -
Store Tract, formerly the right-of-way of the Prairie Trunk Railroad     semitrailer      1992
                                                                         traffic
 
(1986 Code, § 18.23.010) Penalty, see §
72.99(E)
SCHEDULE VIII. YELLOW CAUTION LIGHTS.
   (A)   A flashing yellow caution light or lights shall be installed at the
intersection of South First Street (U.S. Route 45 South) and Center Street in
the city which will be visible to traffic running north and south on South
First Street as an additional indication that the intersection serves as a
crosswalk which is used by a significant number of students attending Center
Street Grade School.
   (B)   The employees of the city are directed and authorized to install a
flashing yellow caution light or caution lights at the intersection of South
First Street and Center Street drawing attention to the fact that the
intersection is a crosswalk which will be visible to traffic driving both north
and south on First Street (U.S. Route 45 South).
(Ord. 09-0210-01, passed 2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Designated no parking areas
      
II.   Thirty-minute parking areas
      
III.   One-hour parking areas
      
IV.   Two-hour parking areas
      
V.   Ten-minute parking areas
      
VI.   Five-minute parking areas
      
VII.   Restricted parking; time and day
      
VIII.   Passenger car only parking areas
      
IX.   Double parking
      
X.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I. DESIGNATED NO PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle at the following locations
in the city, designated “No Parking Areas:”
Street Direction Restricted Area Ord. Date Passed
Street     Direction Restricted Area                    Ord.        Date Passed
Sixth      Southwest West side from Main Street to      927         9-1-1970
Street               Delaware Street
Sixth      West      West side between King Street and  942         7-20-1971
Street               Delaware Street
Sluder               North side from Epworth Street to
Avenue               Laurel Street
                     North side, commencing 100 feet
                     west of the intersection of Sluder
Sluder               Street and George Street; also     24-0213-    2-13-2024
Street 3             North side commencing 145 feet     3 57
                     west of the intersection of Sluder
                     Street and George Street
                     South side, commencing 45 feet
                     west of the intersection of Sluder
Sluder               Street and George Street; also on  24-0213-    2-13-2024
Street 3             the South side, commencing 100     3 57
                     feet west of the intersection of
                     Sluder Street and George Street
Tenth      Southwest East side from West Main Street to
Street               Leininger Road
                     East side from Main Street to Elm  860;
Third      Northwest Street; Parking is not prohibited  18-1022-    4-26-1966;
Street               from West Main Street to West      188         10-22- 2019
                     Court Street
Third      Southwest West Douglas Street south to West  15-0728- 95 7-28- 2015
Street               King Street
Washington
Street,              South side between East Seventh
also known           Street and the eastern city limits 942         7-20-1971
as Park
Road
Water      West      North side from North West Fourth  545         3-7-1944
Street               Street to North West Fifth Street
Notes:
1   Any person in violation is guilty of a misdemeanor
and on conviction thereof shall be fined not less than              
$5 nor more than $200 for each offense.
2   Any vehicle in violation shall have attached
thereto by any officer detecting the violation a notice
of violation. If the owner or operator of the vehicle
shall pay to the City Clerk $5 within 24 hours of the
violation, the payments shall be full satisfaction for
the violation. If payment is not made within 24 hours
of the violation, then $10 shall be the penalty for the
violation if paid before action is filed for penalties  1180        6-9-1981
hereinafter provided. Failure to make payment as
provided in this section shall make the owner or
operator subject to the penalties set forth in the
following. Any person who shall fail to make payment as
provided above, and any person who aids, abets or
assists therein, shall upon conviction thereof be
subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than
$10.
3   Any person, firm or corporation in violation shall
be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each  24-0213-
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed         3 57        2-13-202 4
committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
 
(1986 Code, §§ 18.08.060, 18.08.065, 18.08.067) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. THIRTY-MINUTE PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle for more than 30 minutes
continuously at the following locations in the city, designated “30-Minute
Parking Areas:”
 
Street          Direction Restricted Area                     Ord. Date Passed
Delaware Street           North side between Southeast Sixth  882  10-17-1967
                          Street and Southeast Seventh Street
Main Street               South side between Southeast Sixth  882  10-17-1967
                          Street and Southeast Seventh Street
Sixth Street    Southeast East side between Main Street and   882  10-17-1967
                          Delaware
Notes:
 
(1986 Code, § 18.08.070) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-HOUR PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle for more than one hour
continuously at the following locations in the city, designated “One-Hour
Parking Areas:”
 
Street         Restricted Area                                Ord. Date Passed
Leininger Road North side between Orchard Street and the west 965  6-20-1972
               right-of-way of the B & O Railroad
 
(1986 Code, § 18.08.080) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TWO-HOUR PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle for more than two
hours continuously at the following locations in the city, designated “Two-Hour
Parking Areas:”
Street Direction Restricted Area Ord. Date Passed
Street          Direction Restricted Area                      Ord. Date Passed
                          Between Main and Delaware between
                          First and Fourth, inclusive, if two-
                          hour parking limit is requested by
All streets               the owners or operator of the        1199 4-27-1982
                          businesses adjoining each parking
                          space, between the hours of 8:00
                          a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
                          First two parking spaces on the
Center Street             south side and directly east of      1550 - -2001
                          Second Street, directly north of the
                          Fairfield Public Library
Court Street              South side between Northwest Third   1140 2-12-1980
                          Street and Northwest Fourth Street
Delaware Street           Between Southeast Fourth Street and  1008 9-10-1974
                          Southeast Fifth Street
Fourth Street   Northwest West side between Main Street and    1039 4-28-1976
                          Court Street
Main Street     East      South side between Southeast Fourth  1014 12-23-1974
                          Street and Southeast Sixth Street
                          Both sides running from the east
Main Street               side of First Street to the West     1187 7-28-1981
                          side of East Fourth Street
                          Both sides from First Street to
Main Street               Fourth Street, between the hours of  1187 7-28-1981
                          8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
                          East side between College Street and
Second Street   Southwest King Street during the hours of 8:00 1032 11-10-1975
                          a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on week days
Second Street   Southeast Both sides between Main and Delaware 1187 7-28-1981
                          Streets
Second Street   Northeast Both sides between Main and Court    1199 4-27-1982
                          Streets
Third Street    Southeast Both sides between Main and Delaware 1187 7-28-1981
                          Streets
Third Street    Northeast West side between Main Street and    1199 4-27-1982
                          Court Street
 
(1986 Code, § 18.08.090)
   (B)   Vehicles cannot be parked for more than two continuous hours on the
following streets and locations: both sides of Southeast Second Street from
Center Street south to the east-west alley which is directly south of the
Fairfield Public Library.
      (1)   The fine for exceeding the two-hour parking limit established by
this division shall be $5.
      (2)   The two-hour parking limits as required by this division shall be
in effect as listed below:
 
Day                     Hours
Monday through Thursday 1:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Friday                  1.00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Saturday                10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
 
      (3)   The city police are hereby authorized to place signs to properly
designate the two-hour parking limits.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.092) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. TEN-MINUTE PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park or stand any vehicle for more than ten
consecutive minutes on the following streets and locations within the city
limits:
 
Street          Direction Restricted Area                    Ord. Date Passed
Delaware Street East      East half of the south side of the 1351 - -1989
                          200 block
Third Street    Southeast North half of the west side of the 1351 - -1989
                          200 block
 
   (B)   The Chief of the Police Department shall post or cause to be posted
suitable ten-minute parking signs at the locations facing the traffic
approaching the locations in the direction of travel on the streets.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.096) (Ord. 1351, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. FIVE-MINUTE PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle for more than five
continuous minutes on the following streets and locations for the period
beginning on the first day of each month and ending with the eleventh day of
each month:
 
Street        Direction Restricted Area                       Ord. Date Passed
                        South side from northeast Second
Court Street  East      Street to the alley between Lots No.  1329 - -1988
                        25 and 26 of the original town, now
                        City of Fairfield
                        West side from the alley between Lots
Second Street Northeast No. 26 and 35, in the original town,  1329 - -1988
                        now City of Fairfield, to East Court
                        Street
 
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating this section
shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)   The city police are authorized and directed to place signs to properly
designate the five-minute parking limits as described above.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.093) (Ord. 1329, passed - -1988)
SCHEDULE VII. RESTRICTED PARKING; TIME AND DAY.
   (A)   No parking areas during hours 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday. It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle during the hours from
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Fridays at the following locations in the
city, designated “No Parking Areas During Hours 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday
Through Friday:”
 
Street Direction Restricted Area
Second Southeast West side adjacent to the north third of Lot 65 in Turney’s Second
Street           Addition
 
(1986 Code, § 18.08.100)
   (B)   No parking areas during hours 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. every day for
street sweeping purposes. It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle
during the hours from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. every day at the following
locations in the city, designated “No Parking Areas During Hours 1:00 a.m. to
5:00 a.m. Monday Through Friday:”
Street Direction Restricted Area Ord. Date Passed
Street          Direction Restricted Area                      Ord. Date Passed
Court Street              From North First Street to Northeast 746  6-16-1959
                          Fourth Street
Delaware Street           From west city limits to the east    746  6-16-1959
                          city limits
First Street              From south railroad tracks to Water  746  6-16-1959
                          Street
Fourth Street   Northeast From Court Street to Delaware Street 746  6-16-1959
Main Street               From west city limits to the east    746  6-16-1959
                          city limits
Second Street   Northeast From Court to Douglas Street         746  6-16-1959
Third Street    Northeast From Court Street to Center Street   746  6-16-1959
 
(1986 Code, § 18.08.110) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. PASSENGER CAR ONLY PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle other
than a passenger car at the following locations in the city, designated
“Passenger Car Only Parking Areas:”
 
Street          Direction Restricted Area                      Ord. Date Passed
                          On the south side for a distance of
Delaware Street West      75 feet westerly from the            1282 - -1986
                          intersection of West Delaware Street
                          and South West Seventh Street
                          On the south side for a distance of
Delaware Street West      75 feet westerly from the            1282 - -1986
                          intersection of West Delaware Street
                          and South West Fourth Street
                          On either side for a distance of 50
Main Street     West      feet easterly from the intersection  1282 - -1986
                          of West Main Street and Second
                          Street
                          On either side of for a distance of
Main Street     West      50 feet easterly from the            1282 - -1986
                          intersection of West Main Street and
                          Sixth Street
                          On either side for a distance of 50
Main Street     West      feet easterly from the intersection  1282 - -1986
                          of West Main Street and Seventh
                          Street
 
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Includes a passenger carrying vehicle
which is constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for
occasional off-road operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Includes a motor vehicle that is designed for carrying not
more than ten persons, but shall not include a multipurpose passenger vehicle.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.095) (Ord. 1282, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. DOUBLE PARKING.
   No double parking shall be had on the street known as Main Street of the
city beginning at a point known as East Fourth Street and Main Street and
running west on Main Street to the railroad tracks of the Baltimore and Ohio
Southwestern Railroad Company.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.010) (Ord. 415, passed 9-5-1936) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle, whether occupied or
not, at the following locations in the city, except temporarily, for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers in the following area designed “loading zone:”
 
Street       Direction Restricted Area                        Ord. Date Passed
                       On the north side for a distance of 50
Court Street East      feet easterly from the intersection of 1360 - -1991
                       Northeast Second Street and East Court
                       Street
 
   (B)   The Chief of the Police Department shall post or cause to be posted
suitable loading zone signs at the locations described above.
(1986 Code, § 18.08.115) (Ord. 1360, passed - -1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 78: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
78.01   Operation on roadways with posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or
less
   
78.02   Definitions; prohibitions
   
78.03   Requirements
   
78.04   Signage
   
78.05   Permits
   
78.06   Permit application
   
78.07   Required equipment
   
78.08   Inspection
   
78.09   Operational rules
   
78.10   Police Vehicle Fund
   
78.11   Subject to state law
 
   
78.99   Penalty
§ 78.01 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS WITH POSTED SPEED LIMIT OF 35 MILES PER HOUR OR
LESS.
   The city, after considering the volume, speed, and character of traffic on
all roadways with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less and under
the jurisdiction of the city hereby determines that the public safety will not
be jeopardized for golf carts and utility terrain vehicles (that are equipped
pursuant to § 78.07) to travel upon such roadways with a posted speed limit of
35 miles per hour or less and under the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 78.02 DEFINITIONS; PROHIBITIONS.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-101.8 and OFF-
HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153.1 are
prohibited from being operated upon the streets under the jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 78.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles are permitted to be operated
on all roadways within the city, except as set forth in division (B) of this
section, but only after the owner of the golf carts and utility terrain
vehicles first obtain a permit from the city and only after the golf carts and
utility terrain vehicles pass an inspection as described herein and subject to
the operational rules set forth in §
78.09.
   (B)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles are not permitted upon State
Highway Route 15 (Main Street and Delaware Street) and U.S. Highway 45 (1st
Street) except to cross in the manner set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
1426.1(h).
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.04 SIGNAGE.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1(d), appropriate signs shall be
posted in the city to notify the public at large that golf carts and utility
terrain vehicles are permitted to travel upon its roadways.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.05 PERMITS.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle upon the
roadways of the city without first completing an application, paying the permit
fee of $100, paying an inspection fee of $50 and passing an inspection of the
golf cart or the utility terrain vehicle to be conducted by the Chief of Police
of the City of Fairfield Police Department (or his or her designee) to ensure
that the golf cart or the utility terrain vehicle is safe and has the required
equipment (as described on §
78.07). The application shall be given to the Police Chief at the time of the
inspection. Likewise, all fees shall be paid to the Police Chief by cash,
cashier's check or money order payable to the City of Fairfield, Illinois at
the time of the inspection. Upon receipt of the required fees, the Police Chief
shall issue and tender a receipt to the applicant. The applicant shall provide
to the Police Chief proof of liability insurance as required by law and said
insurance shall be valid at the time of the application for a period of at
least six months thereafter. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year
and renewed annually.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.06 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any permit is issued by the city, an application shall be made
on the forms as provided by the city and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   Serial number, make, model and description of the golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle;
      (4)   Proof of insurance coverage specifically for the vehicle to be
operated pursuant to the permit;
      (5)   Photocopy of the applicant's current driver's license.
   (B)   Such other and further information as the city may require.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.07 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   No golf cart or utility terrain vehicle may be operated on any street under
the jurisdiction of the city unless said vehicle is equipped with the
following:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   A rearview mirror;
   (E)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear;
   (F)   A slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-709 on the rear of the vehicle;
   (G)   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front;
   (H)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear;
   (I)   Brake lights;
   (J)   Turn signals;
   (K)   A windshield or eye protection (which shall be worn when the golf cart
or utility terrain vehicle is being operated); and
   (L)   Seatbelts for both driver and any and all passengers.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.08 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before any permit is issued by the city, the vehicle shall be
inspected by the Police Chief, who will determine if the golf cart or the
utility terrain vehicle is safe for operation on public roadways and has the
required equipment (as set forth in §
78.07). The cost of said inspection is $50. Golf carts or utility terrain
vehicles, shall be inspected every year prior to a permit being issued. After
the initial payment and issuance of a permit, for subsequent years licensees
are only required to pay a $100 renewal fee.
   (B)   A golf cart or utility terrain vehicle will be allowed to be driven to
the Police Department for vehicle inspection if the requestor has called ahead
and arranged with the Police Chief a specific meeting time.
   (C)   When all requirements of §§
78.07 through
78.09 are complete and the Police Chief has determined that the golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle is equipped with the appropriate equipment, a permit
sticker shall be issued by the Police Chief and given to the applicant.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.09 OPERATIONAL RULES.
   The following rules apply to the operation of all golf carts and utility
terrain vehicles on the roadways of the city.
   (A)   Any golf cart or utility terrain vehicle operated within the city must
acquire and display on the vehicle a current permit sticker issued by the city
after said vehicle has passed an inspection by the Police Chief, all required
paperwork has been submitted to the Police Chief and all fees and costs have
been paid.
   (B)   Any individual who operates a golf cart or a utility terrain vehicle
within the city must possess a valid Illinois driver's license and must be 18
years of age or older.
   (C)   Each driver and passenger of a golf cart and utility terrain vehicle
shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   (D)   The vehicle shall have its headlights and tail lamp lights turned on
and lighted at all times while the vehicle is operated on the roadway.
   (E)   The vehicle shall travel on the roadway in the same direction as
traffic.
   (F)   No golf cart and utility terrain vehicle shall be operated on any
publicly owned property except for public streets and parking areas within the
city which are designed for the use of automobiles. No golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle may be operated on any public sidewalk or on any part of a
public park or cemetery other than the park or cemetery's designated driving or
parking areas.
   (G)   No golf cart or utility terrain vehicle may attach any trailer,
implement or other devise to the rear of the vehicle or otherwise while being
used within the city and said operator shall not use any pull rope or chain or
any other devise in any fashion to either tow or be towed within the city nor
shall said golf cart or utility terrain vehicle be used to push any implement
or other vehicle, except for a snow plow or other apparatus that conforms to
said vehicle.
   (H)   No individual shall operate and no owner shall permit another person
to operate such a vehicle on the city roadways unless the vehicle is covered by
liability insurance policies required by law and said insurance is in effect at
the time of the application for a period of at least six months. Proof of such
liability insurance coverage shall be carried on said driver or in the vehicle
at all times while the vehicle is operated on the roadways of the city.
   (I)   No golf cart or utility terrain vehicle shall be operated between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (J)   The sticker issued by the Police Chief for the golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle shall be kept affixed to the slow-moving emblem at all times
the golf cart or utility terrain vehicle is operated. The sticker shall be kept
unobstructed on the rear of the vehicle.
   (L)   All owners and operators of all golf carts and utility terrain
vehicles that are being operated on roadways within the city shall comply with
all city ordinances.
   (M)   No individual under eight years of age shall be allowed to be a
passenger in said vehicle.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-0827-184, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 78.10 POLICE VEHICLE FUND.
   All fees collected, including the permit fee, the inspection fee and any
fines collected from the Circuit Court or any Municipal Court from the
enforcement of this chapter shall be deposited in the City of Fairfield Police
Department Police Vehicle Fund.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 78.11 SUBJECT TO STATE LAW.
   Any individual operating a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle within the
city shall be subject to all laws of the State of Illinois concerning the rules
of the road and as set forth in the ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.
Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1(f), any person who drives or is in
actual physical control of a golf cart or a utility terrain vehicle on a
roadway while under the influence is subject to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500
through 11-502. Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1(g), any person who
operates a golf cart or autility terrain vehicle on a street, highway, or
roadway shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements of ILCS Ch. 7,
Art. VI.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 78.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $250 for a first offense, $500 for a second offense and $750 for a third
offense. Any violation of this chapter or any statute of the State of Illinois,
occurring from the operation of any golf cart or utility terrain vehicle in the
city may result in revocation or suspension of a permit issued under this
chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a first offense, a fine and/or revocation or
suspension of a permit may occur. In the event of a second offense within 18
months of the date of the prior offense, the same shall result in a fine and
immediate revocation of the permit issued. At any time upon the investigation
and by the recommendation of the Police Chief or the Mayor, the city, by and
through the Mayor, may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding by the Police Chief or the Mayor that there is evidence that the
individual cannot or will not safely operate said vehicle or that said vehicle
is not in compliance with this chapter. Upon such revocation or suspension, the
Police Chief shall provide notice of such revocation or suspension to the
individual by regular mail or personal delivery.
(Ord. 19-0813-181, passed 8-13-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   CEMETERY
      
93.   AIRPORT
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Authority
   
90.002   Definitions
Administration
   
90.015   Appointment/removal of Administrator
   
90.016   Duties of Administrator
   
90.017   Animal control wardens; appointment; removal
   
90.018   Duties of animal control warden
   
90.019   Powers of animal control warden
   
90.020   Agreement
Livestock and Poultry
   
90.035   Prohibition
   
90.036   Poultry dealer; hatchery
   
90.037   Butchery, slaughterhouse and packing house
   
90.038   Livestock facilities, stock yards and auction barns
   
90.039   Stray livestock and poultry
   
90.040   Livestock and poultry transporters and carriers
Dogs and Cats
   
90.055   Confinement
   
90.056   Inoculation
   
90.057   Attack
   
90.058   Police dog; fire dog
   
90.059   Guide dog; support dog
   
90.060   Poisoning
   
90.061   Cruel treatment
   
90.062   At large; impoundment
   
90.063   Guard dogs; sentry dogs; watch dogs; junk yard dogs; prohibitions
   
90.064   Shows, exhibitions and programs
   
90.065   Humane treatment
   
90.066   Transportation
   
90.067   Kennels; cattery; breeders; dealers; prohibitions
   
90.068   Animals purchased or taken for research and experimentation
   
90.069   Trainers and groomers
   
90.070   Animal boarders and sitters
   
90.071   Animal shelters and pounds
   
90.072   Veterinary hospitals, clinics and offices
   
90.073   Barking dogs
   
90.074   Prohibiting a reckless dog owner from possessing a dog
General Prohibitions and Regulations
   
90.085   Pet shops
   
90.086   Honey bees and hives
   
90.087   Bait shops and worm farms
   
90.088   Animal feces
   
90.089   Dangerous animals
   
90.090   Vicious animals
   
90.091   Exotic animals, birds, reptiles and fish
   
90.092   Furbearing animals, fur farms and fur procedures
   
90.093   Fur dealers, buyers and skinners
   
90.094   Taxidermist
   
90.095   Trappers, trapping and traps
   
90.096   Poisoning and baiting
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 AUTHORITY.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted pursuant to authority
given to the city pursuant to ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq., § 5/24 of the
State Animal Control Act.
(1986 Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed by the
Council.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or wild, except humans.
   ANIMAL BITE. A person or animal has been seized with the teeth or jaws of
another animal so that the person or animal seized has been nipped, gripped,
wounded or pierced and further includes contact of saliva with any break or
abrasion of the skin.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDENS. Any person appointed by the Administrator and
approved by the Council to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
    ANIMAL HOSPITAL/CLINIC/VETERINARIAN CLINIC/HOSPITAL/ MEDICAL CENTER. Any
business or operation wherein a licensed veterinarian is engaged in the medical
care and treatment of animals for profit or non-profit.
   BAIT SHOP/WORM GROWERS. Any business or operation engaged in the raising,
keeping, breeding, buying, selling, live fish bait, including, but not limited
to, worms or night crawlers.
   BUTCHERY/SLAUGHTERHOUSE/PACKING HOUSE. Any business or operation engaged in
the slaughtering, butchering, skinning, plucking, dressing or packaging of
livestock, poultry or game for market or custom slaughtering for individuals,
when livestock, poultry or game is processed from a live state.
   CAT. As used in this chapter, a domesticated cat and excludes all other
members of the family Felidae.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal, bird or fowl, at all times, by the owner
or his or her agent, to an escape-proof building, open or other enclosure, away
from other animals, birds or fowl and the public.
   CONTRACTS or AGREEMENTS. The Council may enter into contracts or agreements
with the County Humane Society or others to provide necessary personnel,
equipment, supplies, facilities or pounds so as the Administrator may carry out
the provisions of this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Fairfield City Council, made up of duly elected or appointed
Aldermen and Mayor, who represent the city.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any elephant, giraffe, camel, lion, tiger, leopard,
cougar, ocelot, jaguar, jaguarundi, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx,
bobcat, ape, gorilla, baboon, orangutan, monkey, kangaroo, wallaby, deer, elk,
moose, gazelle, antelope, mountain goat, wild hog, wild animals or any
poisonous or life-threatening snakes or reptiles including alligators and
crocodiles.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. Any person appointed by the Administrator to aid him
or her in his or her duties, who is a licensed veterinarian of the state.
   DISEASED/DISEASE CARRYING ANIMALS. Any animal, bird, fowl or fish, who is
known to be a carrier or promoter of contagious diseases or rabies, including,
but not limited to, bats, rats, mice, rodents, skunks, barn sparrows or other
infected animals.
   DOG. As used in this chapter, a domesticated dog and excludes all other
members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence, cage or structure of sufficient width and height, with
enclosed top, sides and bottom, forming an ENCLOSURE suitable to prevent the
entry of other animals or humans and preventing the escape of a vicious animal
from within the ENCLOSURE and may be required in conjunction with other
measures such as leashing of the animal inside the ENCLOSURE. Such an ENCLOSURE
shall be kept locked at all times.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS/BIRDS/FISH/REPTILES. Any animal, reptile, bird or fowl,
either native or foreign, wild or domestic, which does not fall into any of the
other definitions, and may be considered out of the ordinary, including, but
not limited to, parrots, canaries, cockatoos, cockateels, parakeets, finches,
love birds, doves or salt water or fresh water tropical fish, non-poisonous
reptiles, snakes, lizards, turtles, skinks, including chameleon, gecko, horned
toad or lizard, iguana, water dragons, bearded dragons or hamster, gerbil,
guinea pig, white mice or variations of the above.
   FISH MARKET/SEAFOOD MARKET. Any business or operation engaged in the buying,
selling, exchanging of live fish, turtle, crawfish, crayfish, lobster, shrimp,
eel, oyster, clam or any other cetaceans, crustaceans, mollusks, echinoderms,
batrachians, either sea or fresh water for consumption, either in a live state,
or slaughtered, and processed on the premises.
   FUNDING. The Council shall be empowered to utilize moneys from the General
Fund to effectuate the intent of this chapter.
   FUR DEALER. A person who is engaged in the business of buying or gathering,
or procuring animal fur, hides, skins, feathers or carcasses for resale for a
compensation or profit.
   FURBEARING ANIMALS. Mink, chinchillas, ermine, sable, rabbit, otter,
raccoon, opossum, muskrat, fox, weasel, ground hog, marten, marmots, skunk,
beaver, porcupines, hedgehogs, gopher, woodchuck, prairie dog, ground
squirrels, tree squirrels, flying squirrels or any variations of the above.
   GUIDE DOGS/SUPPORT DOGS.  GUIDE DOGS for the blind or hearing impaired or
SUPPORT DOGS for the physically handicapped may be exempt from certain
provisions of this title.
   HOUSE PET. Any animal which is kept inside the residence of its owner and
cannot leave of its own free will.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any chartered, not-for-profit organization authorized to do
business in this state and organized for the purpose of preventing cruelty to
animals and promoting humane care and treatment of animals.
   HUMANELY TERMINATED. The painless administration of a lethal dose of an
agent which shall cause the painless death of an animal as prescribed in the
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, January 15, 1993. This
method shall not destroy brain tissue necessary for laboratory examination for
rabies.
   IMPOUNDED. When an animal is taken into custody of a pound approved by the
Administrator.
   INOCULATION. The injection into an animal of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department of Agriculture of the state and administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
   KENNELS/BREEDERS/DEALERS/CATTERY. Any business, operation or anyone engaged
in breeding, raising, buying, selling, dealing in or exchanging dogs or cats
for a fee or compensation.
   LABORATORY. A laboratory operated by the State Department of Agriculture,
the State Department of Public Health, any land grant university or other
laboratories approved by the State Department of Public Health.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any police officer which has been certified by the
state to enforce the laws of the state.
   LEASH/RESTRAINT/RUN LINE. A cord, rope, strap, chain or other device which
shall be securely fastened to the collar or harness of an animal, bird or fowl,
or any other instrument designed for the physical restraint thereof, and shall
be of sufficient strength to restrict or limit the physical movements or
actions thereof so as the restrainer has complete control of the animal, bird
or fowl at all times.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   LIVESTOCK. Any bison, cattle, oxen, swine, sheep, goats, equidae, including
horses, mules, jacks, donkeys and burros. It also includes ostriches, emus,
peacocks, cassowary, llamas or any variations of all of the above.
   LIVESTOCK FACILITY/STOCK YARD/AUCTION BARN. Any business or operation
engaged in the buying, selling, dealing, grading or exchanging of livestock in
which livestock is physically housed, enclosed or confined for any length of
time on the premises.
   LIVESTOCK/POULTRY TRANSPORTER/CARRIER/TRUCKER/SHIPPER. Anyone who is engaged
in the transporting, hauling, shipping, moving or herding of livestock, poultry
or other live animals.
   MUZZLE. A device designed to fit tightly around an animal’s head and jaws so
as to prevent the animal from being physically able to bite, nip or chew
another animal or human.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog, cat or any other
animal, bird, fowl or fish, or anyone who keeps or harbors, has in his or her
care, acts as custodian or knowingly permits these creatures to remain on or
about any premises occupied by him or her.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association or
other legal entity, any political subdivision of the state, or any other
business unit.
   PET SHOP. Any business or operation engaged in the buying, selling,
exchanging, holding, housing, exhibiting for sale, dogs, cats, exotic animals,
birds, fish or reptiles, as pets for a fee or compensation.
   POLICE DOG/FIRE DOG; POLICE OR FIRE AGENCY OWNED DOGS THAT ARE SPECIFICALLY
TRAINED IN CERTAIN AREAS SUCH AS DRUG DETECT/WATCH DOGS. Dogs that are trained
to protect property and deter or deny trespassers, burglars or thieves from
entry upon property.
   POULTRY. Any domestic fowl including chickens, bantams, turkeys, guineas,
ducks, geese, swans, herons, cranes, quail or grouse, pheasant, partridge,
pigeon, woodcock or any variation of the above.
   POULTRY DEALER/HATCHERY. Any business or operation engaged in the buying,
selling, breeding, hatching, grading or exchanging of live poultry or fertile
poultry eggs and poultry or eggs are physically housed, enclosed or confined
for any length of time on the premises.
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Administrator for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats or other animals, birds or fowl.
   RABIES CERTIFICATE. A certificate showing the date an animal has been
inoculated and the expiration date of the inoculation which is issued by a
licensed veterinarian and is to be kept by the owner of the animal to show
proof of inoculation or vaccination.
   RABIES TAG. A metal or plastic tag issued by a licensed veterinarian and
showing the dates an animal was inoculated and the expiration date of that
inoculation or vaccination and is to be worn on the collar or harness of the
animal at all times.
   STRAY. An animal not on the premises of the owner and not confined or under
control by a leash or restraint.
   TAXIDERMIST. A person who is practicing the profession of taxidermy,
preparing, preserving, stuffing or mounting dead animals or birds in a lifelike
manner.
   TRAINERS/BOARDERS/GROOMERS. Any business, operation or anyone else, engaged
in training, boarding, watching over, caring for, grooming or trimming house
pets or other animals for a fee or compensation.
   TRAPPER. Any person who is engaged in the setting of traps of any kind for
the catching of animals or birds for whatever use.
   VICIOUS ANIMALS. Any animal that without provocation attacks, bites or
attempts to attack or bite a human being or another animal either on public or
private property. Also included is any animal which, after examination by the
Administrator or an animal control warden, has been declared a VICIOUS ANIMAL
in writing. No animal shall be deemed a VICIOUS ANIMAL if it attacks or bites
and unauthorized trespasser on the property of its owner and that trespasser
has tormented or abused the animal. A VICIOUS ANIMAL shall not be classified in
a manner that is specific as to breed.
(1986 Code, § 6.04.020) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 90.015 APPOINTMENT/REMOVAL OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint as
Administrator a veterinarian licensed by the state. These appointments shall be
made as necessary to keep this position filled at all times. The Administrator
may appoint as many Deputy Administrators or animal control wardens to aid him
or her as authorized by the Council.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.010) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.016 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator, through education, rabies
inoculation, stray control, impoundment, quarantine and any other means deemed
necessary, to control and prevent the spread of rabies in this city, and to
enforce the humane care and treatment, and the adequate living space, shelter
and protection from the elements, for all animals in the city. Compensation for
the Administrator, if any, shall be funded by the Council.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.020) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.017 ANIMAL CONTROL WARDENS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   The Administrator may appoint animal control wardens with approval of the
Council to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Administrator, with
consent of the Council, may also remove an animal control warden from service.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.030) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.018 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN.
   Duties of an animal control warden shall include issuance of and service of
citations and orders for violations of this chapter, the policing and
inspection of all animals restrained or confined or running at large, within
the city and the apprehension and impoundment of animals found in violation of
this chapter, and the termination of these animals where found necessary.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.040) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.019 POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN.
   (A)   The animal control wardens are, for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter, clothed with power of police officers within the municipality, and as
police officers, have the power to make arrests on view or issue citations for
violations of this chapter and to execute and serve warrants and processes
issued by the city, state or County Circuit Court; however, these police
officers are prohibited from carrying firearms, but are authorized to carry
pepper-mace, after proper training, to protect themselves from dangerous or
vicious animals, and may use a tranquilizer gun or other equipment to capture
or contain animals.
   (B)   For the purpose of carrying out these provisions of this chapter, and
making inspections hereunder, the Administrator or animal control wardens or
any officer of the law may enter upon private premises to inspect, issue
citations, serve warrants or apprehend any animal in violation of this chapter,
or to destroy an animal if deemed necessary by the officers.
   (C)   If an owner shall refuse a request by the officers to deliver over an
animal or a property owner refuses entry upon his or her property of officers
engaged in enforcing this chapter, he or she shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.050) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020 AGREEMENT.
   So as to provide the Administrator with the necessary trained personnel,
equipment, supplies, facilities and a state licensed pound/shelter, to carry
out the provisions of the City Municipal Animal Control Act as codified in this
chapter, the City Council does enter in to an agreement with the “Pearl Foval”
Wayne County Humane Society to provide these services. See Agreement for Animal
Control, signed October 14, 1992, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 6.08.060) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY
§ 90.035 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, raise, confine, enclose, pen, harbor or house
live livestock or poultry, within the municipality, except by a licensed
poultry dealer or hatchery, that has obtained a permit from the City Clerk, or
in an impoundment capacity.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.010) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 POULTRY DEALER; HATCHERY.
   It shall be lawful for a business engaged in farm produce sales, to order,
buy and house for resale, live poultry or poultry hatchlings, within the
municipality, in an area of the city designated commercial by the City Zoning
Board, after registering with the City Clerk and obtaining a permit which shall
be renewed every three years. To obtain a permit the owner/operator must have
in his or her possession a state sales tax certificate with tax number. Poultry
dealers shall be subject to all regulations of the state, and be open to
inspection by state or local animal control warden, Administrator or any law
enforcement officer. Poultry dealers shall be given a copy of the Municipal
Animal Control Act as codified in this chapter and shall become familiar with
this Act and shall advise customers who reside in the municipality that it is
unlawful to raise, keep, confine, enclose, pen, harbor or house any poultry
within the municipality, except by a licensed poultry dealer. All poultry
housed by a poultry dealer must be confined within a building away from other
animals or persons and shall be maintained in a sanitary enclosure with proper
ventilation, adequate nutrition and provided humane care and treatment. Permits
may be revoked for violations of this chapter or any state regulations.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.020) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 BUTCHERY, SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND PACKING HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of receiving
live animals, including livestock, poultry or wild game, for the purpose of
killing, skinning, plucking, butchering, slaughtering, dressing, cutting up or
packaging for compensation or profit within the municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.030) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 LIVESTOCK FACILITIES, STOCK YARDS AND AUCTION BARNS.
   Livestock facilities, stock yards, auction barns or any other businesses
engaged in the buying, selling, dealing, grading or exchanging of livestock, in
which livestock is physically housed, enclosed or confined for any length of
time upon the premises of the business, shall be prohibited within the
municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.040) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 STRAY LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY.
   (A)   Livestock or poultry which has strayed into, escaped from a
transporter, driver or rider, or found running at large, within the
municipality may be impounded at any facility capable of restraining or
confining the livestock or poultry, and a reasonable attempt shall be made to
determine the owner, transporter, rider or driver and to provide him or her
with notice of impoundment.
   (B)   Any animal control warden, or police officer, or any other person
assisting in the restraining and impoundment of stray livestock or poultry,
shall be held harmless of any liability for injury to or any financial
responsibility for strays. Any facility used for the impoundment or confinement
of strays shall not be held liable for any injury of or accrue any financial
responsibility for the strays.
   (C)   The owner, transporter, rider or driver of stray livestock or poultry
shall be held financially liable for any personal injury or property damage
caused by the stray livestock or poultry, and for any expense incurred in the
restraining or impoundment of strays, including any medical treatment, feed,
care, fees or fines. Unpaid expenses shall become a lien on the strays and must
be discharged before release. After notice of impoundment has been given, the
owner, transporter, rider or driver has two days to redeem the strays, after
which the strays may be sold and the proceeds applied toward the incurred
expenses, fees or fines, or strays may be humanely terminated, and any balance
of expenses, fees or fines shall be the responsibility of the owner,
transporter, rider or driver. In the event the rightful owner, transporter,
cannot be determined after a reasonable attempt, then a notice of impoundment
shall be posted in the local newspaper for two issues, after which the strays
may be sold or humanely terminated in accordance with the above.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.050) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY TRANSPORTERS AND CARRIERS.
   (A)   Anyone transporting livestock or poultry within the municipality, in
any type of vehicle, truck or trailer, shall ensure that the conveyance be of
sufficient construction so as to prevent the escape of livestock or poultry. No
transporter of livestock or poultry shall confine the animals in any type of
vehicle, truck, trailer or other carrier, in a manner that places the animals
in a life or health threatening situation by exposure to a prolonged period of
extreme heat or cold, without proper ventilation or other protection from heat
or cold. In order to protect the health and safety of the animals, any animal
control warden, police officer or investigator who has probable cause to
believe that this section is being violated shall have authority to enter the
vehicle, truck, trailer or other carrier, by any reasonable means under the
circumstance after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner, transporter
or driver.
   (B)   If livestock or poultry becomes downed in transit, it shall be the
responsibility of the transporter or carrier to have the animal humanely
terminated and disposed of.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a transporter or carrier to park the vehicle,
truck, trailer or other carrier, with livestock or poultry on board, within the
municipality for over four hours, unless mechanically disabled. If livestock or
poultry carriers are unloaded and have been cleaned and deodorized, they may
park within the municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.12.060) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.055 CONFINEMENT.
   In general, it shall be lawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, care
for, act as custodian of, maintain as a house pet, in his or her possession a
dog or cat, as defined in this chapter, subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Every dog or cat must be either kept within the home as a house pet,
as defined in this chapter;
   (B)   Kept within an escape-proof pen or kennel;
   (C)   Kept on a leash or restraint or run line as defined in this chapter,
of sufficient strength so as to prevent the escape of a dog or cat, and be
unobstructed, and contain the minimum square footage of space per animal as
required in this chapter;
   (D)   If the dog or cat is, or has been, declared a vicious animal as
defined in this chapter, the vicious animal shall be kept within an escape-
proof enclosure as defined in this chapter, and the enclosure shall contain the
minimum square footage of space per animal as required by this chapter. The
vicious animal shall be kept within the enclosure at all times except if
necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the vicious
animal or to comply with a court order, and then only when securely muzzled and
restrained on a leash having a tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding
three feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of
the owner or keeper of the vicious animal. The keeper of a vicious animal shall
not sell, transfer ownership or give away the animal, but may have the animal
humanely terminated. Any vicious animal found not within an enclosure, or
running at large in violation of this chapter shall be terminated by any means
necessary.
   (E)   Dogs or cats which are kept outside, either in a pen, kennel or
enclosure, or on a leash, restraint or run line, shall be provided with
adequate shelter and protection from the weather, with access to either a dog
or cat house, or other building, as approved by the animal control warden.
   (F)   Every dog or cat shall be kept in sanitary conditions, with proper
ventilation and minimum square footage of space, and to be provided with a
sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water, so as to ensure
his or her adequate nutrition, shelter from the elements and humane care and
treatment, including veterinary care when needed to prevent pain and suffering,
and to provide for their good health, as provided by a animal control warden.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to release, or cause the release
of any animal from confinement of the owner, unless authorized.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.010) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 INOCULATION.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat, four months or more of age, shall cause
the animals to have an inoculation against rabies by a licensed veterinarian,
and to keep these inoculations current, and up to date.
   (B)   Each owner shall be responsible for keeping the rabies certificate
issued by a licensed veterinarian as proof of the inoculation, and shall make
it available for inspection by the Administrator or animal control warden or
any other law enforcement officer upon demand.
   (C)   Every owner of a dog or cat so inoculated shall cause the animal to
wear a metal or plastic rabies tag issued by a licensed veterinarian attesting
to the inoculation attached to a collar or harness at all times.
   (D)   The owner or custodian of any animal which exhibits clinical signs of
rabies, whether or not the animal has been inoculated against rabies, shall
immediately notify the animal control warden or the Administrator.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.020) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Inoculation defined, see §
90.002
   Rabies certificate defined, see §
90.002
§ 90.057 ATTACK.
   (A)   If a dog or cat or other animal, without provocation, attacks or
injures any person or other animal who is at any place where he or she may
lawfully be, the owner or custodian of the attacking dog, cat or other animal
is liable for damages to the injured person or animal and all fees and fines
incurred in the investigation of the attack by the Administrator or animal
control warden or any other law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Any person who has knowledge that another person or animal has been
bitten by a dog or cat or other animal shall notify the Administrator or animal
control warden or law enforcement officer immediately. Failure to do so is a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog, cat or other
animal that has bitten a person or another animal, to terminate, sell, give
away, hide, transfer to an unknown place, or otherwise dispose of the animal,
until it has been examined and released by the Administrator or animal control
officer.
   (D)   When the Administrator or animal control warden receives information
that a person or animal has been bitten by an animal, he or she shall
investigate the report, and if no proof is presented that the attacking animal
has been inoculated for rabies, he or she may impound or confine the animal
under observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days. The
investigating animal control warden shall attempt to determine the owner or
custodian of the animal and obtain his or her name, address and a description,
breed, age, sex of his or her animal, and provide this information to the
licensed veterinarian who is observing the animal.
   (E)   When, during investigation of an animal bite of a person or animal,
evidence is presented (rabies tag or rabies certificate) that the attacking
animal was inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law, the
Administrator or animal control warden may allow the attacking animal to be
confined in the house of the owner or custodian or within an enclosure as
defined in this chapter for a period of ten days.
   (F)   At the end of a confinement period described above, the animal shall
be examined by the Administrator or another licensed veterinarian to determine
if the animal is infected by rabies and shall make a report to the victim or
his or her attending physician or health agency. Also, the Administrator or
animal control warden will then determine the final disposition of the biting
animal. They shall do one of the following:
      (1)   Return the animal to the owner or custodian;
      (2)   Declare the animal as vicious and order it held in an enclosure as
defined in this chapter; or
      (3)   Humanely terminate the animal.
   (G)   In all cases, the animal shall not be released until all expenses,
fees and fines for violations of this chapter are paid in full.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.030) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 POLICE DOG; FIRE DOG.
   (A)   Any law enforcement agency or Fire Department who keeps, harbors or
boards a trained police dog or fire dog within the municipality shall confine
the dog within an enclosure as defined in this chapter and shall keep the
Administrator or animal control warden informed of the address where the dog is
stationed. At all times when a police dog or fire dog is released from an
enclosure, he or she shall be restrained on a leash and under the direct
control of the police or fire trainer or handler, or under supervision of the
police or fire trainer or handler, or within a police or fire vehicle. The head
of the law enforcement agency shall be held responsible for the actions of the
trainer’s or handler’s dogs; however, police and fire agencies and their
trainers or handlers are exempt from all fines or fees for violations of this
chapter.
   (B)   When a person has been bitten by a police or fire dog, the dog may
continue to perform its duties for the police or fire trainer or handler, or
their agencies, and any period of observation required by the Administrator or
animal control warden may be fulfilled under the supervision of the police or
fire trainer or handler. A police or fire dog found running at large and not
under the supervision of a police or fire trainer or handler shall be returned
immediately to the police or fire agency.
   (C)   Teasing/striking/tampering with police/fire dog is prohibited. It
shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously taunt, torment,
tease, beat, strike or administer or subject any desensitizing drugs, chemicals
or substance to any dog used by a fire or police officer in the performance of
his or her functions or duties, or when placed in an enclosure off duty; or to
interfere or meddle with any dog used by a fire or law enforcement department
or agency or any handler thereof in the performance of the functions or duties
of the department or agency.
   (D)   Injuring or killing police/fire dogs is prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously, torture, mutilate, injure,
disable, poison or kill any dog used by a Police or Fire Department or agency
in the performance of the functions or duties of that department or when placed
in an enclosure off duty. However, a police officer or licensed veterinarian
may perform a humane termination of the dog in an emergency situation in which
delay would cause the dog undue suffering and pain.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.040) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 GUIDE DOG; SUPPORT DOG.
   (A)   A guide dog for a blind or hearing impaired person or a support dog
for a physically handicapped person may be kept, harbored or boarded within the
person’s home or as otherwise permitted by this chapter, anywhere within the
municipality. The owner or custodian of the dog shall keep the Administrator or
animal control warden informed of the address where the dog is kept. At all
times when a guide dog or support dog is released from confinement, it shall be
restrained on a leash and under the direct control of the owner or custodian.
   (B)   When a person has been bitten by a guide dog or support dog, the dog
may continue to perform its duties for the handicapped owner or custodian, and
any period of observation required by the Administrator or animal control
warden may be fulfilled under the supervision of the handicapped person. A
guide dog or support dog found running at large and not under the supervision
of the owner or custodian shall be returned to the owner or custodian
immediately. Owners or custodians of guide dogs or support dogs are exempt from
all fines or fees for the apprehension and return of the escaped dogs; however,
owners of these dogs may be held liable for any personal injury or property
damage caused by the dogs.
   (C)   Teasing/striking/tampering with a guide dog or support dog is
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously
taunt, torment, tease, beat, strike or administer or inject any desensitizing
drugs, chemicals or substance to any dog used by a handicapped person to guide
or support themselves, or when the dog is placed on a restraint or leash, or
within a kennel or pen, or to interfere or meddle with any dog or handler
thereof.
   (D)   Injuring or killing guide dogs or support dogs is prohibited. It shall
be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously torture, mutilate,
injure, disable, poison or kill any dog used by a handicapped person to guide
or support themselves, or when the dog is placed on a restraint or leash, or
within a kennel or pen. However, a licensed veterinarian may perform a humane
termination of the dog at the owner’s request to prevent undue suffering and
pain to the dog.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.050) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.060 POISONING.
   Poisoning dogs or cats or other animals is prohibited within the
municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.060) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Poisoning/baiting, see §
90.096
§ 90.061 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   Cruel treatment of dogs or other animals is prohibited. No person may
intentionally commit an act that causes a house pet, dog, cat or other animal,
to suffer serious injury or death, except in self defense of a dangerous animal
or vicious animal, or to rid a residence or out-building of rats, mice, bats or
other disease carrying rodents or sparrows.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.070) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or cat discovered running at large, or found without a rabies
tag within the municipality, shall be apprehended and impounded, and notice
given to the owner, if known, either in person or by mail, to the last known
address. Notice shall state the date the animal was impounded and that the
animal may be redeemed within seven days of that date by compliance with the
following:
      (1)   Present proof of current rabies inoculation;
      (2)   Pay for the rabies inoculation of the animal;
      (3)   Pay the pound or shelter for the board; and/or
      (4)   Pay all fines and fees for violations of the chapter.
   (B)   Any dog or cat not redeemed by the owner, after the impoundment period
expires, shall be humanely terminated or offered for adoption. If the
unredeemed animal is offered for adoption, it shall not be released until
confirmed arrangements for spaying or neutering of the animal has been made
with a licensed veterinarian. Also the animal may not be released without
having a rabies inoculation. The fees for the spaying or neutering and
inoculation shall be the responsibility of the adopting owner. Failure to
complete the spaying or neutering arrangements for the animal shall result in
seizure and impoundment of the animal and shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Failure of an owner to redeem his or her animal within the seven-day
period, shall not excuse the owner’s responsibility for all fees incurred in
the apprehension and impoundment and/or disposal of the animal.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.080) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063 GUARD DOGS; SENTRY DOGS; WATCH DOGS; JUNK YARD DOGS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own, rent, borrow, use, keep, harbor, care
for, act as custodian of, have a right of property in, or maintain in
possession of, any dog which has been trained, or used, as a professional guard
dog, sentry dog, watch dog or what is referred to as a junk yard dog, within
the municipality. These dogs shall be considered dangerous animals as defined
in §
90.002. It shall be no defense to a violation of this section that the violator
has attempted to domesticate the dog, or that the dog is no longer being used
in that capacity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place, release, allow in, allow to remain
within, any business establishment, shopping mall, car lot, salvage yard or any
other place, a trained, professional guard dog, sentry dog, watch dog, or what
is referred to as a junk yard dog, or any other vicious or dangerous animal, to
prevent entry upon or theft from within the business establishments or private
properties. The owner or custodian of any animal so placed, or released shall
be responsible for any personal injury or property damage caused by that
animal.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.090) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064 SHOWS, EXHIBITIONS AND PROGRAMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, permit or allow, or assist
in, or patronize, provide a place for, promote or advertise for any show,
exhibition, program or other activity involving a fight between dogs, cats or
any other animals, or between an animal and a human, or the intentional killing
of any animal for sport, contest, wagering, entertainment or any other reason,
within the municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.100) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065 HUMANE TREATMENT.
   (A)   There shall be provided the following minimum square footage of space
per dog or cat to promote the humane treatment of animals within the
municipality:
      (1)   Leash/restraint/run line for a dog or cat shall be of a minimum
length of ten feet, and of sufficient strength to prevent escape and be
unobstructed and attached to a strong stake, post, tree or other unmovable
object, and the collar or harness of the cat or dog allowing free, tangle proof
movement and access to shelter and food and water; and
      (2)   Pen/kennel/enclosure for confinement of dogs or cats is not
required to have a minimum square footage of space, but only what is considered
humane.
   (B)   Not over four dogs or four cats may be confined to one pen, kennel or
enclosure, except a female with puppies or kittens.
   (C)   Any female dog or cat with puppies or kittens shall be kept apart and
confined separate from all other animals or children in a pen, kennel or
enclosure until the puppies or kittens are eight weeks old, weaned and away.
   (D)   The following property line restrictions shall be adhered to to
promote peace and harmony and show respect for neighbors: dogs and cats tied on
a leash to 20 feet or more from each property line, so as not to annoy or
offend a neighbor.
   (E)   The Administrator, animal control warden or any law enforcement
officer shall retain the right to enter upon private properties within the
municipality, with or without permission from the owner or tenant of the
property, for the express purpose of inspection and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, or to inspect any pen, kennel or enclosure, or any
leash, restraint or run line, to ensure that the requirements of this section
are kept, and may direct the owner or custodian to make additions or changes as
the officials may see fit.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.110) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.066 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   No person transporting dogs, cats or any other animal shall confine
those animals within any type of vehicle, car, truck, trailer or other carrier
in a manner that places the animals in a life or health threatening situation
by exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold without proper
ventilation or other protection from the elements. Dogs and cats transported in
open carriers must be restrained.
   (B)   In order to protect the health and safety of these dogs or cats or
other animals, any animal control warden, law enforcement officer or
investigator who has probable cause to believe that this section is being
violated shall have authority to enter the vehicle, car, truck, trailer or
carrier by any reasonable means under the circumstance after making a
reasonable effort to locate the owner, transporter or driver.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.120) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 KENNELS; CATTERY; BREEDERS; DEALERS; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel or cattery engaged in the business
of breeding or raising dogs or cats for the purpose of selling or dealing them
for profit or compensation within the municipality except by a licensed pet
shop.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.130) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 ANIMALS PURCHASED OR TAKEN FOR RESEARCH AND EXPERIMENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who is licensed by the state to purchase
or obtain animals for resale to a research or experimentation laboratory
without informing the seller or giver of the animals of this purpose or fact
and shall make the owner aware of the animal’s ultimate fate.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.140) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.069 TRAINERS AND GROOMERS.
   It shall be lawful to engage in the business of training or grooming dogs or
cats, or other animals for profit or compensation within the municipality, in
an area of the city designated commercial by the City Zoning Board, after
registering with the City Clerk and obtaining a permit which shall be renewed
every three years. To obtain a permit, the owner or operator must have in his
or her possession a state sales tax certificate with tax number. No trainer or
groomer shall have more than four animals, including his or her own, in
possession at one time. All animals must be confined within a building, pen,
kennel or enclosure, as defined in this chapter, away from other animals or
persons, and shall be maintained in sanitary conditions, with proper
ventilation, adequate nutrition, and provided humane care and treatment. The
permit may be revoked for violations of this chapter or and state regulations.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.150) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.070 ANIMAL BOARDERS AND SITTERS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of boarding, animal sitting
or temporarily keeping or caring for the animals of another on one’s own
premises, for profit or compensation, within the municipality, except a state
licensed veterinary hospital or clinic, or office or a state licensed animal
shelter or pound.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.160) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.071 ANIMAL SHELTERS AND POUNDS.
   It shall be lawful to operate an animal shelter or pound which has been
licensed by the state and operated, owned or maintained by a duly incorporated
humane society or animal welfare society or an entity of government or other
non-profit organization for the purpose of providing for and promoting the
welfare, protection and humane treatment of animals within the municipality, in
an area designated commercial by the City Zoning Board, after registering with
the City Clerk and obtaining a permit. To obtain a permit, the owners or
operators must have in their possession a state license. There shall be no fee
for a permit, but the permit shall be renewed every three years.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.170) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.072 VETERINARY HOSPITALS, CLINICS AND OFFICES.
   It shall be lawful to operate a veterinary hospital, clinic or office
licensed by the state under “The Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Practice Act”,
being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 115, within the municipality in an area designated
commercial by the City Zoning Board after registering with the City Clerk and
obtaining a permit which shall be renewed every three years. To obtain a
permit, the veterinarian practicing at the establishment must present his or
her state license.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.180) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.073 BARKING DOGS.
   If after several complaints of barking or howling or other loud and
disturbing noises have been made against a dog or other animal and the owner or
custodian has been notified and cannot seem to stop the animal from continuing
with the loud and disturbing noise, the animal control warden or any law
enforcement officer may declare the dog or animal a public nuisance and order
the owner or custodian of the animal to either quiet the animal immediately or
place the animal within a building or home so as to muffle the sound of the
animal, or remove the animal from the municipality, or impound the animal for
violation of this section.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.190) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.074 PROHIBITING A RECKLESS DOG OWNER FROM POSSESSING A DOG.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      RECKLESS DOG OWNER. A person who owns a dog or dogs that have been
declared a vicous dog, by a court of law pursuant to the Animal Control Act.
(See 510 ILCS 5/15)
      VICIOUS DOG DECLARATION. A judicial declaration by a court of law
pursuant to the Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/15) that a person’s dog is a
vicious dog (as that term is defined in 510 ILCS 5/2.19b).
   (B)   The City Council finds that due to the demonstrated tendency of
reckless dog owners to allow their dogs to run at large or otherwise encounter
and attack a person, allowing further dog possession by a reckless dog owner
could constitute a danger to human life, health or property, or produces
material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort or injury to the health or
welfare of any person. The City Council hereby declares as a nuisance: (a)
vicious dogs; and (b) further possession of dog(s) by a reckless dog owner. To
prevent a future nuisance, reckless dog owners should be prohibited from
maintaining, owning, or in any manner possessing a dog as set forth herein. The
city shall be allowed to abate this declared nuisance in any manner available
to it in law or equity, including but not limited to a monetary fine as set
forth herein.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall forward a notice to the reckless dog owner
that they are prohibited from possessing a dog for five years. This notice may
be mailed by postage pre-paid first-class U.S. mail at the reckless dog owner’s
last known address.
   (D)   A reckless dog owner is prohibited from maintaining, owning or in any
manner possessing a dog in the city for a period of five years from the date a
vicious dog declaration is made by a court of law. This prohibition includes
prohibiting a reckless dog owner from maintaining ownership of a dog that the
reckless dog owner already possesses. This prohibition also prohibits a
reckless dog owner from possessing and/or owning a subsequent dog.
   (E)   This section shall apply prospectively and retroactively. The city
specifically finds that the prevention of dog attacks and the harm it causes
are of such an important public benefit that a retroactive application of this
section overcomes any costs resulting from the retroactive application.
   (F)   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than $150
for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 21-0622-257, passed 6-22-2021)
GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.085 PET SHOPS.
   It shall be lawful to operate a pet shop, as defined in this chapter, within
the municipality, in an area of the city designated commercial by the City
Zoning Board, after registering with the City Clerk and obtaining a permit
which shall be renewed every three years. To obtain a permit, the owners/
operators must have in their possession a state license and state sales tax
certificate with their tax number. Pet shops shall be subject to all
regulations of the State Animal Welfare Act being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 605, and
shall be subject to inspection by state or local animal control warden or
Administrator. Pet shop operator shall be given a copy of the Municipal Animal
Control Act as codified in this chapter and shall become familiar with this Act
and shall advise customers who live in the municipality of any regulations
which may affect any animal they may purchase from a pet shop.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.010) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.086 HONEY BEES AND HIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the raising or keeping of bees or bee
hives for the taking of honey or wax or for any other reason within the
municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.020) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 BAIT SHOPS AND WORM FARMS.
   It shall be lawful for any person to engage in the business of raising,
keeping, breeding, buying or selling live bait for fishing, for compensation or
profit within the municipality, in an area of the city designated commercial by
the City Zoning Board, after registering with the City Clerk and obtaining a
permit which shall be renewed every three years. To obtain a permit the owners/
operators must present a state sales tax certificate with tax number. Fish bait
may include, but is not limited to, minnows, worms, night crawlers, crawfish,
shrimp, crickets or other insects and the like. The shops shall be subject to
all regulations of the state and shall be subject to inspection by state or
local animal control wardens or the Administrator.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.030) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.088 ANIMAL FECES.
   Owners or handlers of dogs or cats who are walking or exercising animals on
a leash or restraint are responsible for the clean up of any feces deposited by
the animal on either private or public property, sidewalks, curbs, lawns or
streets.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.040) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.089 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a right of property in, keep,
harbor, care for, act as custodian of, or maintain in his or her possession any
dangerous animal, except within a federal or state licensed and properly
maintained zoological park, circus, exhibit, scientific or educational
institution, research laboratory, veterinary hospital or clinic, or humane
society or shelter, in an escape-proof enclosure. It shall be no violation of
this section that the violator has attempted to domesticate the dangerous
animal. Any dangerous animal found not in compliance with this section shall be
immediately seized and placed in an approved facility. If there appears to be
imminent danger to the public by the dangerous animal, it shall be terminated
by any safe means. The owner or keeper of any dangerous animal not in
compliance with this section shall be held liable for any personal injury or
property damage and responsible for any costs connected to the seizure,
confiscation or termination and disposal of the animal as well as all fees or
fines levied against the violator.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.050) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.090 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a right of property in, keep,
harbor, care for, act as custodian of, or maintain in his or her possession any
vicious animal within the municipality, except, within an escape-proof
enclosure as defined in this chapter. The Administrator or animal control
warden may, after examination of an animal, declare in a written notice to the
owner or custodian of the animal that the animal is a vicious animal and must
be kept in an escape-proof enclosure as defined in this chapter. No vicious
animal may be transported to or from the enclosure except with muzzle and leash
and collar or harness restraint. Any vicious animal found outside an enclosure
without the above restraining devices shall be impounded or, if necessary,
terminated, and any expense incurred in the impoundment or termination, as well
as any fines levied, shall be the responsibility of the owner or custodian of
the animal.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.060) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Vicious animal defined, see §
90.002
§ 90.091 EXOTIC ANIMALS, BIRDS, REPTILES AND FISH.
   It shall be lawful for any person to have, keep, harbor, care for, act as
custodian of, or maintain as a house pet in their possession an exotic animal,
bird, reptile or fish as defined in this chapter. However, these creatures must
be kept within the home or an escape-proof enclosure as defined in this chapter
under humane conditions, maintaining sanitary quarters, with sufficient space
and ventilation, and providing adequate nutrition, care and treatment.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.070) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Exotic animal/birds/reptiles/fish defined, see §
90.002
§ 90.092 FURBEARING ANIMALS, FUR FARMS AND FUR PROCEDURES.
   It shall be unlawful to raise, keep, confine, enclose, pen, harbor or house
furbearing animals within the municipality, except in an impoundment capacity.
It shall be no defense to a violation of this section that the violator has
attempted to domesticate the furbearing animal. Any furbearing animal found not
in compliance with this section shall be immediately seized and placed in an
approved facility. The owner or keeper of an furbearing animal not in
compliance with this section shall be held liable for any personal injury or
property damage and responsible for any costs connected to the seizure and
impoundment as well as all fees and fines levied against the violator.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.080) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.093 FUR DEALERS, BUYERS AND SKINNERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of procuring,
receiving, purchasing, bartering or transferring animal furs, hides, skins,
feathers or carcasses of any furbearing animals, or the skinning or dressing of
furbearing animals, or the carcasses of furbearing animals, for compensation or
profit within the municipality except by a licensed taxidermist who has
obtained a permit from the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.090) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.094 TAXIDERMIST.
   It shall be lawful for any person who is engaged in the business of
practicing taxidermy to have in his or her possession animal or bird carcasses,
furs, skins or hides for the purpose of preparing, preserving, stuffing or
mounting them in a lifelike manner within the municipality. The business shall
be located in an area of the city designated commercial by the City Zoning
Board, and owner or operator shall register with the City Clerk, and present a
current state sales tax certificate with tax number to obtain a permit which
shall be renewed every three years.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.100) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
§ 90.095 TRAPPERS, TRAPPING AND TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the setting of traps of any kind for
trapping animals or birds for their furs, skins, hides or feathers or for game,
or sport within the municipality except for the ordinary rat or mouse traps set
within the confines of a house or building and not outside where a child or
animal may be injured or caught.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.110) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.096 POISONING AND BAITING.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the setting out of poisons or baiting of
animals or birds within the municipality except within the confines of a house
or building for the control of insects, pests or rodents and not where a child
or harmless animal or house pet may gain access to it.
(1986 Code, § 6.20.120) (Ord. 1514, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Rabies.
      (1)   Any person who counterfeits or forges any rabies tag or certificate
or permit, or removes any identification tag from an animal for purposes of
concealing or destroying its identity, or makes any false representations in
regards to any provision of this chapter, or resists, obstructs or impedes the
Administrator, animal control warden or any law enforcement officer, in the
enforcement of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense for a first offense
and shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $200, and for a second and
subsequent offense is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
      (2)   Each day a person fails to comply after being notified of a
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Each State’s Attorney or city attorney, to whom the Administrator,
or animal control warden or any law enforcement officer, reports violations of
this chapter shall cause appropriate proceedings to be instituted in the proper
courts without delay and to be prosecuted in the manner provided by law.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, permit or allow,
or assist in, or patronize, provide a place for, promote or advertise for any
show, exhibition, program, or other activity involving a fight between dogs,
cats or any other animals, or between an animal and a human, or the intentional
killing of any animal for sport, contest, wagering, entertainment or any other
reason, within the municipality.
(1986 Code, § 6.16.100)
   (B)   Generally. Any person violating, disobeying, neglecting or refusing to
comply with, or resisting enforcement of any of these provisions of this
chapter shall be fined in accordance with the penalties provided by state law
for a petty offense; provided, however, that the minimum fine shall be not less
than $75 for the initial violation and not less than $150 for a second or
subsequent violation within a 12-month period. Each day an offense is committed
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 6.24.010)
(Ord. 1514, passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Encroachment on Public Right-of-Way
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Unlawful encroachment
   
91.003   Effect on other ordinances
Improvements to Sidewalks
   
91.015   Adoption of policy
   
91.016   Replacement of existing sidewalks
   
91.017   Responsibility for survey
   
91.018   Responsibility for payment; lien
   
91.019   Responsibility for street and alley crossings
   
91.020   Specifications of sidewalks and crossings
   
91.021   Bidding process
   
91.022   Disclaimer of liability
Digging up Streets or Alleys
   
91.035   Permit required when opening street or alley
   
91.036   Requirements to be met before permit issued
   
91.037   Safety measures
   
91.038   Opening street or alley
   
91.039   Closing of street or alley
   
91.040   Necessary approval and inspection of any connection to municipal
utilities
Parkways
   
91.055   Establishment and dimensions
   
91.056   Encroachment by municipality
Offenses Related to Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks
   
91.070   Driving on sidewalks
   
91.071   Damaging streets
   
91.072   Littering
   
91.073   Obstructing street, alley or sidewalk; moving buildings
   
91.074   Dangerous activities on streets or sidewalks
   
91.075   Exhibiting for sale
   
91.076   Removal of ropes, barricades or signs
Small Wireless Facilities
   
91.090   Purpose and scope
   
91.091   Definitions
   
91.092   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
91.093   Dispute resolution
   
91.094   Indemnification
   
91.095   Insurance
 
   
91.999   Penalty
ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between any project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the city, by concurrence in
the establishment of any project right-of-way lines, will permit the state or
city to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of any project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to
the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk, extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highways; the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside any project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
(1986 Code, § 16.02.010) (Ord. 1020, passed - -1975)
§ 91.002 UNLAWFUL ENCROACHMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to be
erected, to retain or cause to be retained any encroachment (as defined in §
91.001) except as provided by a permissible encroachment (as defined in §
91.001), within the limits of any project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way
where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
(1986 Code, § 16.02.020) (Ord. 1020, passed - -1975)
§ 91.003 EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
(1986 Code, § 16.02.030)
IMPROVEMENTS TO SIDEWALKS
§ 91.015 ADOPTION OF POLICY.
   In order to promote improvements to sidewalks in the city, the City Council
adopts a policy that it will assist in payment for installation of sidewalks in
the city when the owners of adjacent property pay for one-half of the total
cost of labor and materials therefor.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.010) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.016 REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   Notwithstanding other sections in this chapter providing for the
installation of sidewalks in the city where no sidewalks previously exist, the
city will participate with the owners of adjacent property in replacement of
existing sidewalks in the city upon request for assistance from those owners of
adjacent property. Upon request, the adjacent property owners requesting
replacement of existing sidewalks shall pay for and be responsible for the
delivery of all necessary materials to the replacement site. The city shall
furnish all necessary labor for replacement of existing sidewalks.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city reserves the right to replace existing
sidewalks at its own expense after determination by the City Street and Bridge
Committee with the approval by the Mayor that the existing sidewalks are in
hazardous condition to the general public.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.015) (Ord. 1405, passed - -1993)
§ 91.017 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SURVEY.
   (A)   When all the owners of adjacent property on one or both sides of any
one or more blocks in the city sign a request to the city to install sidewalks
on one or both sides of any one or more blocks, and the owners agree to pay for
one-half of the total cost of labor and materials therefor, the city will at
its own expense do the surveying.
   (B)   Otherwise, the cost of surveying shall be considered as part of the
total cost of labor and materials for the installation of the sidewalk and
shall be shared equally.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.020) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.018 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   After the city has received a request for assistance for installation
of sidewalks, the Street and Bridge Committee has selected the lowest
responsible bidder, the adjacent property owners have agreed to pay one-half of
the total cost of labor and materials pursuant to this chapter and the
installation of the sidewalks has been completed according to the
specifications of this chapter and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
the Street and Bridge Department, the city will pay to the installing
contractor one-half of the total cost of labor and materials therefor. The
owner of property adjacent to the sidewalks installed shall pay the other one-
half of the total cost of labor and materials therefor upon demand from the
contractor.
   (B)   The adjacent property owner agreeing with the city for the
installation of sidewalks shall grant to the city a lien on the property
adjacent to the sidewalk constructed to secure the owner’s payment of one-half
of the total costs of labor and materials.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.030) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.019 RESPONSIBILITY FOR STREET AND ALLEY CROSSINGS.
   All street and alley crossings shall be constructed and shall be paid for
entirely by the city.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.040) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.020 SPECIFICATIONS OF SIDEWALKS AND CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in the following manner. The surface of
the ground upon which sidewalks are to be laid shall be graded by excavating or
filling, and a smooth surface made for the bed of the sidewalks four inches
below the grade line of the sidewalk. The top of the walk when completed shall
have a slope of one-eighth of an inch to the foot towards the center of the
street along which the sidewalk is laid.
   (B)   The sidewalk shall be laid off in equal sections as follows. When a
walk four feet wide is to be constructed, the sections or blocks shall be four
feet square; where five feet wide, five feet square; where six feet wide, six
feet square; where eight feet wide, four square; where ten feet wide, five feet
square; and when 12 feet, six feet square.
   (C)   The sections shall be filled with concrete to a depth of four inches,
composed of an acceptable concrete mix, as defined in the then-current issue of
the Road and Bridge Specifications of the State of Illinois.
   (D)   (1)   Necessary street and alley crossings shall be constructed, and
where street and alley crossings are to be constructed, the surface of the
ground upon which the crossings are to be laid shall be graded by excavating
and filling, and a smooth surface made for the bed of the crossing six inches
below the grade line of the walk.
      (2)   The crossing shall be laid off in equal sections in the same manner
as is provided for the squares of blocks of the walk, and the sections shall be
filled with concrete of the same composition as set out in division (C) above,
to a depth of six inches.
      (3)   In addition, a concrete reinforcing welded-wire fabric shall be
placed of sufficient gauge, according to the State of Illinois Road and Bridge
Specifications.
   (E)   The surface of all crossings shall be grooved parallel with the walk
and shall also be grooved exactly over the joints between the concrete.
   (F)   Proper expansion joints shall be made and provided where the walk
joins or abuts any other walk or crossing.
   (G)   All water must be clear and pure in that it is free from alkali,
sulphur and discoloration.
   (H)   Mixing of material must comply with the then-current issue of State of
Illinois Road and Bridge Specifications, and meet the approval of the
Superintendent of the Street and Bridge Department.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.050) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.021 BIDDING PROCESS.
   (A)   The total cost of materials and labor (including a survey, if any) for
sidewalks shall be determined and approved by the Street and Bridge Committee,
based upon a least two independent bids submitted to the Committee prior to
construction by the adjacent owners requesting assistance, for sidewalk
construction (labor, materials and surveying, if applicable).
   (B)   The Committee shall select the lowest responsible bid and authorize
the construction to begin.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.060) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
§ 91.022 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The city will not be responsible for any costs of installation of sidewalks
and streets and alley crossings in the city which are not installed according
to the terms and conditions stated in this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 16.04.070) (Ord. 1261, passed - -1985)
DIGGING UP STREETS OR ALLEYS
§ 91.035 PERMIT REQUIRED WHEN OPENING STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to dig up or open any street or alley in the
city for the purpose of making connection to the combined water and sewer
system, gas system of the city, or for the purpose of making connection with
the telephone or cable TV utilities, or for any other purpose except in
compliance with this chapter and pursuant to a permit in writing issued by the
City Collector.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.010) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET BEFORE PERMIT ISSUED.
   Before the City Collector shall issue a permit for opening a street or
alley, the applicant shall request the permit in writing, describing the
location where the street or alley is to be opened, the purpose for the opening
of the street or alley, shall agree to secure and indemnify the city against
any claim of any person or property damage or personal injury which may be
caused by the opening of the street or alley, and shall deposit with the City
Collector the sum of $500, which shall be an opening fee.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.020) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993;
Ord. 13-0611-50, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 20-1208-242, passed 12-08-2020)
§ 91.037 SAFETY MEASURES.
   The Street Department of the city shall protect the street or alley opening
site and the dirt therefrom piled in the city street or alley by proper
barricade by day and by lanterns, flares or electric blinkers from sunset to
sunrise.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.030) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993)
§ 91.038 OPENING STREET OR ALLEY.
   Upon request of the applicant, the city shall open all streets or alleys in
the city for which an opening permit has been issued by the City Collector. The
applicant shall complete all connections or other work in the opening. The
applicant shall also have the responsibility to remove the dirt and other
debris from the opening of the street and alley.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.040) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993;
Ord. 20-1208-242, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 91.039 CLOSING OF STREET OR ALLEY.
   The applicant shall close all street or alley openings with compacted sand
and/or road pack from the bottom of the opening to a level six inches below the
street surface and shall finish with concrete or other such material as may be
required to return the street surface to its original condition and shall
remove all dirt and debris from the opening site. The work of the applicant
shall be under the supervision of and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
of the City Street and Bridge Department, or his or her designate.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.050) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993
-1993; Ord. 20-1208-242, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 91.040 NECESSARY APPROVAL AND INSPECTION OF ANY CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL
UTILITIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect the duty of any plumber, applicant
or other person making connection with the combined water and sewer system, gas
system or electrical system of the city to obtain the required inspection and
approval of the proper officials of the city for the connections prior to the
restoration of the street or alley opening.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.060) (Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993)
PARKWAYS
§ 91.055 ESTABLISHMENT AND DIMENSIONS.
   Parkways are hereby established on each of the residence streets of the
city, the parkways to be of the following widths, respectively: on the streets
of the city which are 80 feet in width, parkways shall be of the width of 18
feet on either side of the street measuring from the lot line; on streets which
are of the width of 70 feet, parkways shall be of the width of 16 feet on
either side of the street measuring from the lot line; on streets which are 60
feet in width, the parkways shall be of the width of 15 feet on either side of
the street, measuring from the lot line; on streets of the width of 50 feet,
the parkways shall be of the width of ten feet on either side of the street,
measuring from the lot line; on streets of the width of 40 feet or less the
parkways shall be of the width of eight feet on either side of the street,
measuring from the lot line.
(1986 Code, § 16.08.010) (Ord. 18, passed 8-14-1922)
§ 91.056 ENCROACHMENT BY MUNICIPALITY.
   The parkways hereby established shall not be encroached upon by the officers
of the city in working the streets and no ditch for any streets of the city
shall be cut within the distance of the parkways hereby established, measuring
as hereinbefore directed, from the lot line abutting on the streets
respectively.
(1986 Code, § 16.08.020) (Ord. 18, passed 8-14-1922)
OFFENSES RELATED TO STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.070 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall cross or pass over or upon any sidewalk with any horse or
other animal or team of animals, or any wagon, carriage, motor vehicle,
carriage or other vehicle, or ride or drive thereon, except where street
crossings are provided.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.010) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 DAMAGING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, either by himself or
herself, agent, employee or employees to run across, along or upon any of the
paved streets in the city, any traction engine, or machine with endless tracts,
without using sound, strong planks of sufficient strength and width to protect
the pavements, two of the planks to be kept continually under the wheels of the
engine while upon the pavement in a manner as to keep the wheels or tracts from
touching the pavement.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.020) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 LITTERING.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to deposit in or on any
street, parkway or alley in the city any paper, cardboard boxes, weeds, trash,
rubbish, tin cans, bottles, glass, boards or any other thing that is likely to
cause punctures to tires or that has to be removed to keep the street, parkway
or alley sightly and clean; provided, however, this section shall not apply to
deposit of garbage in containers, ashes and rubbish as permitted by ordinance
of the city providing for garbage and trash removal.
   (B)   Whoever shall throw, place or leave any ashes, dirt, straw, chips,
shavings, paper, tin cans, old boots, shoes, rags, tacks, nails, bottles or
broken glass or other rubbish in or upon any street, alley or sidewalk, or
shall knowingly permit the same to be done, shall on conviction be fined.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any sweepings, ashes,
trash, spittoon or other rubbish, or to burn any leaves or rubbish upon any
paved street in the city.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.030) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 OBSTRUCTING STREET, ALLEY OR SIDEWALK; MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to leave or allow to remain upon any
street, alley or sidewalk any wood, coal or other items any longer than
necessary for its removal, and any person leaving any deposit upon any street,
alley or sidewalk for 24 hours after receiving notice from the Mayor, any
member of the City Council or the Chief of Police to remove the same, shall be
fined.
   (B)   Any crosswalks in the city shall be kept free from any vehicles,
except so far as may be necessary in crossing the same, and the operator of any
vehicle who shall stop or leave the same upon any crosswalk, and shall not
immediately remove the same at the request of any person, shall be fined.
   (C)   Whenever, from any cause, any street or alley of the city, shall be
obstructed by a motor vehicle, loaded or otherwise, the Mayor, Chief of Police
or other city officer may give direction in regard to the removal of the
vehicles as in the opinion of the officer may be required by the public
convenience.
   (D)   No person or persons shall, by selling or offering for sale any
property at auction or otherwise, obstruct, or cause to be obstructed any
street or sidewalk, by drawing a crowd together.
   (E)   No person, firm or corporation shall place or cause to be placed upon
any public sidewalk any goods, wares or merchandise, for show or sale, nor
shall any goods, wares or merchandise be placed or hung over any public
sidewalk unless the lowest part of the goods, wares or merchandise be elevated
at least eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (F)   No person or persons receiving or delivering goods, wares or
merchandise, shall place or keep the same upon the sidewalk without leaving a
passage at least five feet wide; and the goods shall not be allowed to remain
on the sidewalk for a longer period of time than two hours.
   (G)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
ground, by placing therein or thereon any building material, or other kind of
machinery or any article or thing, nor shall any person remove, or aid or
assist in removing any building into, along or across any street, alley or
public ground of the city, without first obtaining a written permit from the
Mayor, and conforming to the restrictions and conditions as he or she may
prescribe, nor shall in any case encumber more than one-third of any street,
for the storage of building material.
   (H)   If any railroad corporation shall allow a train or car to stand upon
any street, alley or sidewalk, within the corporate limits of the city for more
than ten minutes, the railroad corporation shall be fined.
   (I)   Any person who shall leave open any cellar door, well, cistern or
grating of any vault, upon or joining any public street or sidewalk, shall be
fined.
   (J)   All gates, doors and fences across streets, sidewalks or alleys so as
to obstruct or partially obstruct the sidewalks, streets or alleys are hereby
declared a nuisance; and any person who shall permit any streets, sidewalks or
alleys to be obstructed or partly obstructed by any door, gate or fence
belonging to him, her or them, or shall swing or permit to be swung any gate or
door so that the same may obstruct any streets, sidewalks or alleys when the
same is open, shall upon conviction be fined.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.040) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922; Ord. 438, passed 4-19-
1938) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   Playing ball by throwing, catching or in any other manner, flying kites,
shooting darts or arrows, throwing pebbles or lead or iron balls with any kind
of a sling, or by hand, upon any of the business streets or sidewalks, or the
riding of velocipedes, motorcycles or bicycles, driving of automobiles upon the
sidewalks, are strictly prohibited.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.050) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 EXHIBITING FOR SALE.
   No person shall make a stand or stopping place within or upon any street,
alley or parkway within the city limits for the purpose of exhibiting for sale,
or for the purpose of selling, or offering for sale, any fruits, nuts,
vegetables, game, popcorn, candy, poultry or other provisions or any horses,
mules or cattle, or any wagon, carriage or other vehicle drawn by either of the
animals aforesaid.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.060) (Ord. 312, passed 8-6-1928) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 REMOVAL OF ROPES, BARRICADES OR SIGNS.
   No person, except those duly authorized by the Superintendent of Streets
shall remove any rope, barricade or sign placed on any street or part of street
by the officials of the city to denote that the street is roped off,
barricaded, marked or posted that traveling thereon is prohibited.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.060) (Ord. 556, passed 4-24-1945)
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 91.090 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This subchapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state
laws or regulations.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures,
grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (B)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.092 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9), height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (d)   1.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
            2.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city's review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city's permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this subchapter.
         (b)   If the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act is repealed as
provided in Section 90 therein, renewals of permits shall be subject to the
applicable city code provisions or regulations in effect at the time of
renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
subchapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with ail applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such
interference, and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the
interference by the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its. own
expense, shall remedy the interference in a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973
and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675.
         (d)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(3)(c) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireiess
facility may be located in the communications space on the City utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with ail applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that
the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than 10 feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit or variance in conformance with
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in
Chapter 154 of this Code of Ordinances.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows.
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d) of this section; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this subchapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 18c-7201 Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102,
without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to an electric
or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities
are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i).
         (b)   For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105. Nothing in this
subchapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this subchapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements. Existing agreements between the city and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
city utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the city's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this subchapter. A wireless provider that
has an existing agreement with the city on the effective date of the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (the "Act") may accept the rates, fees and
terms that the city makes available under this subchapter for the collocation
of small wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the city that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
city's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
division.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   $200 per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the city utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.093 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Wayne shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending
resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the city shall
allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no
more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined
upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.094 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this subchapter and the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold
harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the
sole negligence of the city or its employees or agents. A wireless provider
shall further waive any claims that they may have against the city with respect
to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.095 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility. A wireless provider may
self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage and limit requirement
required by the city. A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to
the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name
of additional insureds under this section. A wireless provider that elects to
self-insure shall provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the
city.
(Ord. 18-0925-161, passed 9-25-2018)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Encroachment on public right-of-way. Any person, firm or corporation
violating §§
91.001 through
91.003 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(1986 Code, § 16.02.040)
   (C)   Digging up streets or alleys. Any failure to perform any of the
requirements as set forth in §§
91.035 through
91.040 shall subject the applicant to a fine of not less than $250 and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the
violation occurs or continues.
(1986 Code, § 16.06.070)
   (D)   Parkways. Any person who shall carelessly, negligently or willfully
drive, ride upon or over any parkways hereby established or who shall deface,
injure or destroy the parkway fences, hereby authorized to be erected or in any
manner injure parkways or the fences hereby authorized to be erected, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 16.08.030)
   (E)   Driving on sidewalks. Any person violating §
91.070 shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.010)
   (F)   Damaging streets. For every violation of §
91.071, the person or persons shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$100 and shall be liable for all damages resulting to the pavements by the
reason of the failure to comply with the requirements of this section, together
with the costs of prosecution.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.020)
   (G)   Littering.
      (1)   Any person violating §
91.072(A) shall upon conviction be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Any person violating §
91.072(B) shall upon conviction be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
      (3)   Any person violating §
91.072(C) shall upon conviction be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.030)
   (H)   Obstructing street, alley or sidewalk; moving buildings.
      (1)   Any person violating §
91.073(A) shall upon conviction be fined not less than $1 nor more than $10,
and $5 additional for each day the same shall be allowed to remain after
receiving notice.
      (2)   Any person violating §
91.073(B) shall upon conviction be fined and pay not less than $10 nor more
than $100.
      (3)   Any person refusing or neglecting to obey the directions in §
91.073(C) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100,
and may immediately be arrested to answer for the refusal or neglect.
      (4)   Any person violating §
91.073(D) shall upon conviction be fined under not less than $10 nor more than
$100.
      (5)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
91.073(E) shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than
$100.
      (6)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
91.073(F) shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than
$100, and a penalty of $1 for each hour the obstruction shall remain after
notice by the Mayor or Chief of Police to remove the same.
      (7)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
91.073(G) shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than
$100, and a further penalty of $10 for each day the obstruction shall remain.
      (8)   Any railroad corporation who violates §
91.073(H) shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than
$100.
      (9)   Any person who violates §
91.073(I) shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
      (10)   Any person who violates §
91.073(J) shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.040)
   (I)   Dangerous activities on streets or sidewalks. Any person who violates
§
91.074 shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.050)
   (J)    Exhibiting for sale. Any person who violates §
91.075 shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $5 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
(1986 Code, § 16.10.060)
   (K)    Removal of ropes, barricades or signs. Any person found guilty of
violating §
91.076 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922; Ord. 312, passed 8-6-1928; Ord. 438, passed 4-19-
1938; Ord. 556, passed 4- 24-1945; Ord. 742, passed 2-3-1959; Ord. 1020, passed
- -1975; Ord. 1397, passed - -1993; Ord. 1410, passed - -1993; Ord. 20-1208-
242, passed 12-8-2020)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Creation and plat
   
92.002   Revised plat
   
92.003   Additions to Maple Hill Cemetery; plats
   
92.004   Validity
Granting the Right to Bury
   
92.015   Authority to grant right to bury
   
92.016   Interment permitted by grant only; receiver of fees designated
   
92.017   Record of grants
   
92.018   Form of conveyance
   
92.019   Application for right to bury
   
92.020   Installment contract on purchase of lots; failure to make payment
   
92.021   Grants issued to a church, lodge or other society
   
92.022   Rights of individuals and their survivors
   
92.023   Assignment or transfer of lots
Fees and Charges
   
92.035   Cost of cemetery lots
   
92.036   Charges for opening graves and supervising burials
   
92.037   Deposition of receipts from sales and services
   
92.038   Costs and rules for purchase and use of columbarium niches
Interments, Disinterments and Removals
   
92.050   Subject to city, county and state laws
   
92.051   Subject to ordinances
   
92.052   Sundays and holidays; fees and charges
Cemetery Rules and Regulations
   
92.065   Notice to be given to sexton before interment or disinterment
   
92.066   Sexton’s authority when location of interment space in a lot is
unobtainable or indefinite or interment space cannot be opened when specified
   
92.067   Number of burials allowed in grave, vault, crypt, or niche; exception
   
92.068   Opening a casket or touching a body within confines of cemetery
   
92.069   Remains of human being only permitted within cemetery
   
92.070   Removal of body or remains forbidden; when
   
92.071   Removal of body or remains from original plot to another plot
permitted; when
   
92.072   Charges for cemetery services payable; when
   
92.073   City may refuse service on any lot until arrangements for payment have
been made
   
92.074   Numbering of graves
   
92.075   Placement of graves within lots
   
92.076   Single graves
   
92.077   Care of cemetery
   
92.078   Improvements or alterations made without written consent
   
92.079   Detrimental, unsightly or inconvenient trees or shrubs; authority of
sexton
   
92.080   Placement of certain items on plots prohibited
   
92.081   Display of American flag
   
92.082   Burial in Veterans’ Cemetery
   
92.083   Placement of mausoleums on certain plots only
   
92.084   Certain areas permitted for use of people visiting cemetery grounds
   
92.085   Persons injured within cemetery; city liability
   
92.086   Refreshments and lunches prohibited
   
92.087   Loitering prohibited
   
92.088   Littering prohibited
   
92.089   Operation of automobiles
   
92.090   Use as thoroughfare prohibited; commercial or business vehicles
prohibited without sexton’s permission
   
92.091   Dogs prohibited; exception
   
92.092   Persons engaged in erecting monuments or other structures
   
92.093   Material, machinery or other things for the construction of vaults,
mausoleums, monuments or other structures; regulations
   
92.094   Progress of work
   
92.095   Soliciting memorial business; prohibited
   
92.096   Injuring, defacing, removing or destroying certain articles
prohibited; cutting, breaking, removing or injuring certain articles by consent
of sexton
   
92.097   Cemetery equipment
   
92.098   Digging of graves
   
92.099   Personal property in graves
   
92.100   Vault or concrete box
   
92.101   City not liable
   
92.102   Cemetery hours
Monuments and Markers
   
92.115   Central or family memorial; number allowed on lot; placement
   
92.116   No memorial may be erected when sexton disapproves
   
92.117   Maximum size and placement of memorial allowed on lots
   
92.118   Markers; requirements; placement in Blocks A, B, C and D
   
92.119   Certain structures, decorations and materials prohibited; abatement by
sexton
   
92.120   Sexton may stop work of any nature
   
92.121   Mausoleums or tombs; placement; materials
   
92.122   Private mausoleums; regulations
   
92.123   City to regulate all work; assumes responsibility for construction of
foundations
   
92.124   Undesirable memorial, mausoleum or tomb; abatement
   
92.125   Marker requirements in veteran’s cemetery
Foundations
   
92.130   Building of foundation; restricted by weather
   
92.131   Foundations; size
   
92.132   Foundations; depth; finish
   
92.133   Foundation and setting charges; when payable
   
92.134   Finishing foundation; notice to sexton
   
92.135   Damage to foundations
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 CREATION AND PLAT.
   The tract of land laid off and platted by the city, known and designated as
the Fairfield Cemetery, and recorded in Book No. 45, Page 1 of the records in
the Recorder’s office of Wayne County, Illinois, shall be held and kept as a
city cemetery, and shall hereafter be called Maple Hill Cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.02.010) (Ord. 3, passed 8-14-1922)
§ 92.002 REVISED PLAT.
   (A)   The roadways, walkways and burial lots of the addition to the Maple
Hill Cemetery in the city, as evidenced by a certain plat of record in Book A
of Page 199, in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, Wayne County, Illinois,
be, and they are hereby altered to conform as to number of lots, location and
width of lots, and location and width of walkways and roadways, in accordance
with a revised plat of the addition to the Maple Hill Cemetery, a copy of the
plat being kept in the office of the City Clerk, and made a part hereof by
reference.
   (B)   The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause to be recorded a copy of
the revised plat in the office of the Recorder of Deeds in and for the county.
(1986 Code, § 4.02.020) (Ord. 485-A, passed 12-17-1940)
§ 92.003 ADDITIONS TO MAPLE HILL CEMETERY; PLATS.
   The addition to Maple Hill Cemetery acquired in October, 1943 by
condemnation shall be called “East Addition to Maple Hill Cemetery” and it and
all other tracts of land hereafter acquired for cemetery purposes shall be
divided into lots and a map or plat shall be made thereof and one copy shall be
kept in the office of the City Clerk and made a part hereof and another copy
shall be kept in the office of the sexton of the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.02.030) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.004 VALIDITY.
   If any section or part of this chapter is declared illegal or void, all
other parts shall remain in full force and effect.
(1986 Code, § 4.02.040) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
GRANTING THE RIGHT TO BURY
§ 92.015 AUTHORITY TO GRANT RIGHT TO BURY.
   The city may grant to individuals, or to churches, lodges or other
organizations the right to bury upon certain designated lots in the cemetery.
The grant shall be executed by the City Clerk. The right to bury so granted and
the instrument granting the right shall be subject to all the terms, rules and
regulations and charges of this chapter and any amendments hereafter adopted.
The right to bury shall not be transferable, except the right may be released
to the city. The records of the office of the City Clerk shall be conclusive
evidence as to the ownership of the right to bury upon any lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.010) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.016 INTERMENT PERMITTED BY GRANT ONLY; RECEIVER OF FEES DESIGNATED.
   No interment shall be made in the cemetery unless the grant or contract for
grant to the premises or lots in which the interment is so made shall first be
obtained from or issued by the City Clerk and in conformity with this chapter,
and no person or persons except as therein provided shall take, receive or
collect any fees or sums of money in connection with issuance of grant,
interment or use of any lot and premises in the cemetery, except as authorized
hereby.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.020) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.017 RECORD OF GRANTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all grants made, all contracts for
grants, the name of each grantee and the date of each, and shall keep a
permanent record at all times showing who are the grantees of all lots sold in
the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.030) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.018 FORM OF CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   The form of conveyance may be in the following form:
Know All Men By These Presents, that the City of Fairfield, by                         , Mayor, and                         , City Clerk, party of
the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of        dollars, doth hereby grant, bargain and sell to                         , of the County
of                         , and State of                         , the following described lot or parcel of land, situated in the Maple Hill
Cemetery, and described as follows, to-wit:                                                                           to have and to hold the same to
the only proper use and benefit of the party of the second part,                          heirs and assigns forever, for burial purposes only, and
subject to the control of the City Council.
                           Dated this                          day of                          A.D. 20       .
                                          CITY OF FAIRFIELD
                                             By                          (Seal)
                                                (Mayor)
                                                                              (Seal)
                                                (City Clerk)
 
   (B)   This is not the conveyance shown in Ordinance 603, but the form now
used by City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.040) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.019 APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO BURY.
   Applications for the purchase of the right to bury in any lot shall be made
to the city sexton, and when the lot shall have been selected by the applicant,
the sexton shall issue to the applicant a certificate addressed to the City
Clerk over his or her signature stating that the lot is unsold, which the
certificate shall be presented to the City Clerk, and upon payment on the
charge the City Clerk shall issue a conveyance of the right to bury on the lot;
the certificate shall not be considered by the City Clerk unless dated within
five days of the date it is presented to him or her.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.050) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.020 INSTALLMENT CONTRACT ON PURCHASE OF LOTS; FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk may enter into an installment contract with a proposed
purchaser of a grant of the right to bury upon the lot or lots upon the payment
of the price of the right, as provided by this chapter, or any amendment
thereto, by paying at least 50% down and the balance in equal monthly
installments of not more than six months, and upon the payment of the full
purchase price in the contract as provided therein the City Clerk shall issue
the grant of the right of burial as provided in §
92.018.
   (B)   No interment shall be permitted or memorial placed in or on any
property not fully paid for except by special consent of the City Clerk or
Sexton of the Cemetery in each and every case. In the event consent is given,
any and all interments or memorials placed in or on the property shall be
considered as temporary. A note shall not be considered as payment, and no
rights shall be acquired by the lot purchaser of the interment or interments
until the property is fully paid for in cash, including principal and interest.
In case the purchaser of the property shall fail to meet all payments within 30
days after the same are demanded by the city, then the city may re-enter the
property and hold the same as of its former estate. The city, thereupon, shall
be released from all obligations thereunder, and it may retain payments as may
have been made toward the purchase of the property as liquidated damages. The
city reserves the right, and shall have the right, immediately or at any time
thereafter, after due notice to next of kin, to remove to single graves, to be
chosen by the city, each of the remains then interred in the property. The
city, further, shall have the right to remove any memorial that has been placed
on the property; or the city may leave the body in part of lot and retain title
to remainder and re-sell the same.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.060) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947; Ord. 21-0126-243, passed
1-26-2021)
§ 92.021 GRANTS ISSUED TO A CHURCH, LODGE OR OTHER SOCIETY.
   Where a right of burial is granted to a church, lodge or other society,
interments shall be limited to the actual members of that organization and to
their husbands or wives, and to immediate families of members.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.070) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.022 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS AND THEIR SURVIVORS.
   (A)   Whenever an interment is made in a plot that has been transferred by
grant to an individual grantee by the city and is held as a separate plot, it
shall be indivisible; and the whole of the burial plot thereby becomes
inalienable and shall be held as the family burial plot of the owner, in which
one grave, niche or crypt may be used for the owner’s interment, one for the
interment of the surviving husband or wife, if any, of the owner who by law has
a vested right of interment therein, and in those remaining, if any, the
children of the deceased owner may be interred, in the order of need, without
the consent of any person claiming any interest therein. In the event there
shall be no child surviving the deceased person, the right of interment therein
shall go to the next heirs at law of the deceased owner as specified by the
statutes of descent.
   (B)   On the decease of the proprietor of a lot, when the lot is not
specifically mentioned in his or her will, an affidavit must be filed at the
office of the City Clerk, signed by one of the heirs at law, and in the case of
minors, by their guardian. This affidavit must include a list of the names of
all heirs and a majority must also designate one of their number as the
representative, who shall be authorized to sign orders for interments in the
lot and to give all other needful directions regarding the lot. If no affidavit
shall be filed, the City Clerk may designate some one of the heirs at law so to
act until a time as the before-mentioned affidavit shall have been filed.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.080) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.023 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No transfer or assignment by any grantee of the city of any plot, or
interest therein, shall be valid except to the city, and upon a reconveyance to
the city, the city shall be the owner of the plot as though it had never been
sold. The city may pay any price for reconveyance but not to exceed the
consideration originally paid for the plot or the proportionate part of the
consideration for any part of the plot reconveyed. However, if a grantee wishes
to trade a plot that they own within the cemetery for a plot of the same size,
the grantee may do so without incurring any additional charge or fee.
(1986 Code, § 4.04.090) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947; Ord. 22-0927-308, passed
9-27-2022)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 92.035 COST OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   The charge for the right to bury in all two-grave lots in Maple Hill
Cemetery shall be$400 for each grave lot.
   (B)   The charge for the right to bury on each lot location on which
mausoleums may be built shall be $2,000. This cost includes lot and grave
opening.
   (C)   The charge for the right to bury in an in-ground single mausoleum
shall be $1,000 and for in-ground double mausoleum shall be $2,000. This cost
includes lot and grave opening.
   (D)   The charge for the right to bury in a single-grave lot shall be$400,
providing that single-grave lots shall be sold only in Lots 1 through 32 of the
roadside lots, commencing at the north edge of Washington Street in the
entrance and continuing in a northeasterly direction alongside of Park Road to
a line extended westerly from the north boundary line of Block O Old Part of
the cemetery, and also Lots 1 through 100 in Block O East Addition of Maple
Hill Cemetery.
   (E)   Upon application and certification of indigent economic status
satisfactory to the City Clerk, there shall be no charge for the right to bury
in the potter's field in the north fourth of the Block E, Old Part of Maple
Hill Cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.06.010) (Ord. 858, passed 3-1-1966; Ord. 1295, passed - -1987;
Ord. 1379, passed - -1992; Ord. 1571, passed - -2003; Ord. 21-0126-243, passed
1-26-2021)
§ 92.036 CHARGES FOR OPENING GRAVES AND SUPERVISING BURIALS.
   (A)   The charge for opening graves during Monday through Friday, except
city holidays, shall be $400.
   (B)   The charge for opening graves during Saturday and city holidays shall
be $600. A funeral service may not commence later than noon on Saturdays. If
the burial is before noon on the next business day following a weekend or a
city holiday, the charge shall be $600.
   (C)   The charge for burial of ashes shall be the same as for opening
graves.
   (D)   The charge for burial of cremation remains inside a headstone shall be
$100.
   (E)   The charge for supervising the placement of an above ground or in-
ground mausoleum, payable at the time of setting the foundation, shall be $100.
   (F)   The charge for supervising the setting of foundations for each marker
base, payable at the time of setting the foundation, shall be $20 per marker
base.
   (G)   The charge for the cemetery sexton or designated employees of the city
to oversee and supervise a disinterment shall be $300. The disinterment fee is
for bringing the casket/vault to the surface and does not include
transportation to a new location or re-interment. The cemetery sexton, or
designated employee of the city shall only oversee and supervise the
disinterment which must be performed by a private contractor, and only those
private contractors approved by the cemetery sexton. Any and all disinterments
must be scheduled at a time approved by the cemetery sexton. The city shall not
be liable or responsible for any damage to vaults or caskets which may occur in
the process of disinterment and re-interment, nor will the city be responsible
for or liable for any or all other costs or damages which are associated with
any disinterment or reinterment.
   (H)   Disinterment or reinterment in Maple Hill Cemetery on Saturday, Sunday
or city holidays shall be done at the discretion of the cemetery sexton.
   (I)   The city and employees of the city will not perform any disinterment
from and after the passage of this section.
   (J)   There shall be no fee under §
92.036 for all veterans. The term VETERAN, for the purpose of this section,
shall be the same as the definition under 38 U.S.C. § 101(2) which is as
follows: the term VETERAN means a person who served in the active military,
naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released there from under
conditions other than dishonorable.
(1986 Code, § 4.06.020) (Ord. 1379, passed - -1992; Ord. 1571, passed - -2003;
Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 15-1110-100, passed 11-10-2015; Ord.
21-0126-243, passed 1-26-2021; Ord. 24-0227- 359, passed 2-27-2024)
§ 92.037 DEPOSITION OF RECEIPTS FROM SALES AND SERVICES.
   All receipts and moneys accruing from sales and services shall be deposited
to the Cemetery Fund.
(1986 Code, § 4.06.030) (Ord. 1379, passed - -1992; Ord. 1411, passed - -1993)
§ 92.038 COSTS AND RULES FOR PURCHASE AND USE OF COLUMBARIUM NICHES.
   (A)   The niches shall sell for $500 each. The total cost must be paid prior
to any niche opening.
   (B)   An additional $100 will be charged for any niche which is opened on
weekends, holidays or after 4:00 p.m.
   (C)   All niche openings will be scheduled at the sole discretion of the
cemetery sexton, and inclement weather may delay each opening at the discretion
of the cemetery sexton.
   (D)   If a niche, which has been unused, with a door that has been etched,
is sold back to the city, the price of a new door will be deducted from the
refund received from the city. The niches will be sold in the order established
by the cemetery sexton, and shall be sold so that the horizontal rows of niches
will be sold in sequence; however, Niches 1 through 6 inclusive on the east and
west sides of Columbarium #2 may be sold out of sequential order.
   (E)   The only decorations on the columbarium may be made by the purchaser
of each niche; however, the decorations must be on the door of the niche, and
must be etched into the door. Only the ashes from the cremation of one person
may be stored in each niche.
   (F)   No animal or pet ashes, or any other object of any type, may be stored
in a niche.
   (G)   Niches cannot be re-opened except to transfer the contents to a new
site.
   (H)   All lettering etched in the doors must be in “condensed Roman”
letters.
   (I)   The concrete foundation of the columbarium is owned by the city and no
personal property or decorations of any type will be allowed on the foundation.
   (J)   Any flowers, decorations or personal property brought to the cemetery,
at the time of the niche opening and burial ceremony, shall be placed on the
ground and will be removed by cemetery personnel within three days.
   (K)   The CINERARY URNS are containers for the ashes and may not exceed 12
inches high by 12 inches wide by 16 inches deep.
   (L)   If the owner of any niche causes any damage or takes any action which
is prohibited by these rules, the owner shall be responsible for and liable for
the cost to repair or replace the damage. There shall be no objects, personal
property, flowers or other decorations of any type allowed on the top of the
columbarium. There shall also be no adhesive vases or any other items that may
be attached to the niche doors using adhesive or any other method.
   (M)   Niches are to be opened and closed by cemetery personnel only.
   (N)   Cemetery personnel must have at least 24 hours’ advance notice prior
to any niche opening or burial ceremony involving the columbarium.
   (O)   The cost for a niche allows the purchaser the right to use the niche
for burial purposes only and the niche will always remain the property of the
city.
   (P)   After the purchaser of a niche pays the required costs, the City Clerk
will issue to the purchaser a permit for the use of a niche with a specific
number in the columbarium which is owned by the city. This permit shall entitle
the purchaser to perpetual and unlimited use of the niche purchased, subject to
all rules and regulations imposed by the city.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
INTERMENTS, DISINTERMENTS AND REMOVALS
§ 92.050 SUBJECT TO CITY, COUNTY AND STATE LAWS.
   Besides being subject to these rules and regulations, all interments,
disinterments and removals are made subject to the orders and laws of the
properly constituted authorities of the city, county and state.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.010)
§ 92.051 SUBJECT TO ORDINANCES.
   All interments, disinterments and removals must be made at the time and in
the manner and subject to the charges as fixed by ordinances.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.020)
§ 92.052 SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS; FEES AND CHARGES.
   Interments, disinterments and removals on Sundays are hereby prohibited.
Interment, disinterments and removals on holidays are regarded with disfavor;
when necessary, these services are subject to special additional charges. An
additional charge shall be made when any service necessitates payment for
overtime labor. All charges shall be fixed by the sexton, if not specifically
fixed by ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.030) (Ord. 1379, passed - -1992; Ord. 24-0227-359, passed 2-
27-2024)
CEMETERY RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.065 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO SEXTON BEFORE INTERMENT OR DISINTERMENT.
   The right is reserved to insist upon at least 24 hours’ notice to the sexton
prior to any interment, and at least one week’s notice prior to any
disinterment or removal.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.040)
§ 92.066 SEXTON’S AUTHORITY WHEN LOCATION OF INTERMENT SPACE IN A LOT IS
UNOBTAINABLE OR INDEFINITE OR INTERMENT SPACE CANNOT BE OPENED WHEN SPECIFIED.
   When instructions regarding the location of an interment space in a lot
cannot be obtained, or are indefinite, or when, for any reason, the interment
space cannot be opened when specified, the sexton may, in his or her
discretion, open it in a location in the lot as he or she deems best and
proper, so as not to delay the funeral; neither the sexton nor the city shall
be liable in damages for any error so made.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.050)
§ 92.067 NUMBER OF BURIALS ALLOWED IN GRAVE, VAULT, CRYPT, OR NICHE; EXCEPTION.
   Not more than one body and one cremation remains or no more than three
cremation remains shall be interred in one grave, vault, or crypt, except by
written consent of the sexton and provided proper identification is made of the
interment or interments on one regulation crypt, memorial or marker. Only one
cremation remains shall be placed in a niche.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.060) (Ord. 21-0126-243, passed 1-26-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068 OPENING A CASKET OR TOUCHING A BODY WITHIN CONFINES OF CEMETERY.
   Once a casket containing a body is within the confines of the cemetery, no
funeral director, or his or her embalmer, assistant, employee or agent, shall
be permitted to open the casket or to touch the body without the consent of the
legal representatives of the deceased and the sexton, or without a court order.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.070)
§ 92.069 REMAINS OF HUMAN BEING ONLY PERMITTED WITHIN CEMETERY.
   No interment of any body, or the cremated remains of any body, other than
that of a human being, shall be permitted in the cemeteries.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.080) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.070 REMOVAL OF BODY OR REMAINS FORBIDDEN; WHEN.
   Removal, by the heirs, of a body or cremated remains so that the plot may be
sold for profit to themselves, or removal contrary to the express or implied
wish of the original plot owner, is repugnant to the ordinary sense of decency
and is absolutely forbidden.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.090) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.071 REMOVAL OF BODY OR REMAINS FROM ORIGINAL PLOT TO ANOTHER PLOT
PERMITTED; WHEN.
   A body, or cremated remains, may be removed from its original plot to
another plot in the cemetery, where there has been an exchange or purchase for
that purpose approved by the sexton or Chairperson of Cemetery Committee.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.100)
§ 92.072 CHARGES FOR CEMETERY SERVICES PAYABLE; WHEN.
   The charges for the cemetery services must be paid at the time of the
issuance of the order of interment, disinterment or removal.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.110)
§ 92.073 CITY MAY REFUSE SERVICE ON ANY LOT UNTIL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PAYMENT HAVE
BEEN MADE.
   The city reserves the right to refuse to do, or allow to be done, work of
any character, including interments in or upon any lot, until arrangements have
been made for payment of any and all indebtedness due the city for work
performed in or upon the lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.120)
§ 92.074 NUMBERING OF GRAVES.
   All graves in the cemetery shall be numbered from south to north on each lot
or half lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.130)
§ 92.075 PLACEMENT OF GRAVES WITHIN LOTS.
   (A)   The south line of Grave Number One on each lot shall be one foot from
the south line of the lot.
   (B)   The north line of Grave Number Four on each lot and of Grave Number
Two on the north half of each lot shall be one foot from the north line of the
lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.140) (Ord. 1571, passed - -2003)
§ 92.076 SINGLE GRAVES.
   Single graves shall be sold only in Lots 1 through 32 of the roadside lots
commencing at the north edge of Washington Street entrance and continuing in a
northeasterly direction alongside of Park Road to a line extended westerly from
the north boundary line of Block O, old part of Maple Hill Cemetery, and also
Lots 1 through 100 in Block O, east addition to Maple Hill Cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.150) (Ord. 1379, passed - -1992)
§ 92.077 CARE OF CEMETERY.
   All openings and closings of graves, and all interments, shall be made only
by the cemetery personnel. Cemetery personnel shall oversee and supervise any
disinterment or removal and will be performed by a private contractor that has
been approved by the cemetery sexton.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.160) (Ord. 1571, passed - -2003; Ord. 21-0126-243, passed 1-
26-2021)
§ 92.078 IMPROVEMENTS OR ALTERATIONS MADE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT.
   Should any improvements or alterations be made without written consent of
the sexton, he or she shall have the right to remove, alter or change the
improvements or alterations at the expense of the plot owner.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.170)
§ 92.079 DETRIMENTAL, UNSIGHTLY OR INCONVENIENT TREES OR SHRUBS; AUTHORITY OF
SEXTON.
   No bushes, shrubs or trees shall be planted on any lot.
(Ord. 14-1222-87, passed 12-22-2014)
§ 92.080 PLACEMENT OF CERTAIN ITEMS ON PLOTS PROHIBITED.
   No flowers or decorations on, or in the ground, shall be allowed year round,
except one shepherd hook per grave lot. The shepherd hook can only be placed at
the north or south end of the monument or marker. The only exception for
flowers or decorations will be for the following holidays: Memorial Day;
Veterans’ Day; Labor Day; Easter; and Christmas. Decorations for Memorial Day,
Veterans’ Day, Labor Day, and Easter will be discarded by cemetery personnel
one week after the holidays. Christmas decorations and grave blankets will be
discarded by cemetery personnel by March 1 annually.
(Ord. 14-1222-87, passed 12-22-2014)
§ 92.081 DISPLAY OF AMERICAN FLAG.
   As a special mark of respect to those who have so served our country, the
American flag may be displayed on the graves of those persons who have
honorably served in the armed forces of the United States of America.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.200)
§ 92.082 BURIAL IN VETERANS’ CEMETERY.
   Before a veteran may be buried in the Veterans’ Cemetery, he or she must
have fulfilled all requirements as set forth by the Veterans’ Cemetery
Committee (a committee of the Veterans of Foreign Wars organization). If these
requirements have not been fulfilled, the burial may be denied by the cemetery
sexton or Chairperson of the Cemetery Committee of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.210)
§ 92.083 PLACEMENT OF MAUSOLEUMS ON CERTAIN PLOTS ONLY.
   Mausoleums shall be placed only on plots set aside for that purpose, as
shown on the maps of the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.220)
§ 92.084 CERTAIN AREAS PERMITTED FOR USE OF PEOPLE VISITING CEMETERY GROUNDS.
   Persons within the cemetery grounds shall use only the avenues, walks,
alleys and roads.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.230) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.085 PERSONS INJURED WITHIN CEMETERY; CITY LIABILITY.
   Any person injured in any manner in the cemetery shall in no way hold the
city liable for any injuries sustained.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.240) (Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.086 REFRESHMENTS AND LUNCHES PROHIBITED.
   No persons shall be permitted to have refreshments or lunches within the
cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.250) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.087 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   Loitering shall not be permitted on any of the grounds, graves or monuments
in the cemetery, or in any of the buildings.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.260) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.088 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   Receptacles for waste material shall be located at convenient places. The
throwing of rubbish on the drives and paths or on any part of the grounds or in
the buildings is prohibited.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.270) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.089 OPERATION OF AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   Automobiles shall not be driven through the grounds at a greater speed
than 15 mph, and must always be kept on the right-hand side of the cemetery
roadway, unless otherwise directed by the sexton, or his or her assistants.
Automobiles are not allowed to park or to come to a full stop in front of an
open grave unless the automobiles are in attendance at the funeral. Automobiles
must not turn in the driveways or avenues but must proceed to the next
intersection before changing direction.
   (B)   Motor cars and vehicles must be kept under complete control at all
times. When meeting a funeral procession, they must stop until the procession
passes. They must not pass a funeral procession going in the same direction.
Motor cars must not be left with the engine running and the emergency brake
must be set when the driver is not in his or her seat. Mufflers must not be
open nor the horn sounded within the cemetery.
   (C)   No motor car, vehicle or animal shall be driven across or upon any
grave, lot or lawn nor parked or left thereon. It is prohibited to park or
leave any motor car or vehicle on any road or driveway within the cemetery at a
location or in a position as to prevent any other car or vehicle from passing
the same, and if so parked or left, the motor car or vehicle will be removed
with the towing expense charged to the owner of the car.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.280) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.090 USE AS THOROUGHFARE PROHIBITED; COMMERCIAL OR BUSINESS VEHICLES
PROHIBITED WITHOUT SEXTON’S PERMISSION.
   The use of the cemetery as a thoroughfare is prohibited, and commercial or
business vehicles are permitted to enter only by permission from the sexton.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.290) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.091 DOGS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   Dogs shall not be allowed on the cemetery grounds or in any of the
buildings, except on leash. Any dog waste must be picked up and discarded by
the owner of the dog or the person who is in charge of the dog when the dog is
in the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.300) (Ord. 14-1222-87, passed 12-22-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.092 PERSONS ENGAGED IN ERECTING MONUMENTS OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   Persons engaged in erecting monuments or other structures are prohibited
from attaching ropes to monuments, trees and shrubs, or from scattering their
material over adjoining lots, or from blocking avenues or pathways, or from
leaving their material on the grounds longer than is absolutely necessary. They
must do as little injury to the grass, trees and shrubs as possible, and must
remove all debris and restore the ground and sod to its original condition.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.310)
§ 92.093 MATERIAL, MACHINERY OR OTHER THINGS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF VAULTS,
MAUSOLEUMS, MONUMENTS OR OTHER STRUCTURES; REGULATIONS.
   No material, machinery or other thing for the construction of vaults,
mausoleums, monuments or other structures or monuments themselves, may be
brought into the cemetery until required for immediate use; nor, under any
circumstances, when a funeral is in progress; nor between Saturday noon and
Monday morning; nor on a holiday; and no work shall be done during the time;
nor shall the material be placed on lots adjoining the one on which a structure
is to be erected, without special permission from the sexton.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.320)
§ 92.094 PROGRESS OF WORK.
   Work shall proceed promptly and continuously until the erection of the
memorial is completed.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.330)
§ 92.095 SOLICITING MEMORIAL BUSINESS; PROHIBITED.
   Approaching the bereaved and soliciting memorial business within the
cemetery is not permitted.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.340) (Ord. 604, passed 8-19-1947) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.096 INJURING, DEFACING, REMOVING OR DESTROYING CERTAIN ARTICLES
PROHIBITED; CUTTING, BREAKING, REMOVING OR INJURING CERTAIN ARTICLES BY CONSENT
OF SEXTON.
   No person shall injure, deface, remove or destroy any vault, tomb, monument,
gravestone or other memorial, or any fence or enclosure about the cemeteries,
or shall cut, break, remove or injure any tree, shrub or plant within any
cemetery without the consent of the sexton.
(1986 Code, § 4.08.350) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.097 CEMETERY EQUIPMENT.
   All cemetery equipment, including, but not limited to, mowers, trucks,
tractors and backhoes, will have the right-of-way at all times, and all
visitors must yield to the cemetery equipment.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.098 DIGGING OF GRAVES.
   Graves may only be dug by city employees who are cemetery personnel.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.099 PERSONAL PROPERTY IN GRAVES.
   The cemetery sexton and other cemetery personnel will have the sole
discretion as to what objects or personal property, other than the burial
casket and vault, which may be put in a grave.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.100 VAULT OR CONCRETE BOX.
   All caskets must be placed in a vault or, at a minimum, in a concrete box,
unless the body has been cremated.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.101 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The city and cemetery personnel are not liable for injuries to persons
walking, jogging, bicycling or in any other way exercising on cemetery
property. The city and cemetery personnel will not be liable for damage to
vehicles or other personal property which may occur on cemetery property, while
they are working, mowing or weedeating.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 21-0126-243, passed 1-26-2021)
§ 92.102 CEMETERY HOURS.
   The cemetery shall be closed to the public from 9:00 p.m. each night until
5:00 a.m. each morning. This section shall be effective after signs are posted
at the cemetery indicating that the cemetery is closed to the public from 9:00
p.m. each night until 5:00 a.m. each morning.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
MONUMENTS AND MARKERS
§ 92.115 CENTRAL OR FAMILY MEMORIAL; NUMBER ALLOWED ON LOT; PLACEMENT.
   Only one central or family memorial shall be allowed on a lot, and that
shall be set on the east side of the plot, and the space shall be designated by
the sexton.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.010)
§ 92.116 NO MEMORIAL MAY BE ERECTED WHEN SEXTON DISAPPROVES.
   No lot owner shall erect or place, or cause to be erected or placed, on any
lot in the cemetery, any memorial in respect of which the sexton disapproves.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.020)
§ 92.117 MAXIMUM SIZE AND PLACEMENT OF MEMORIAL ALLOWED ON LOTS.
   The maximum size of a memorial to be placed upon a lot shall be as follows:
   (A)   A memorial for one-grave lot shall not exceed two feet, eight inches
in length;
   (B)   A memorial for a two-grave lot shall not exceed eight feet in length;
   (C)   A memorial for a four-grave lot shall not exceed 16 feet in length;
   (D)   The width of the base shall not exceed the depth of monument space
available on the lot, and in no case may the base extend over an occupied
grave;
   (E)   The height of a memorial, including base, shall not be more than four
feet from level of ground; and
   (F)   The east line of a memorial shall be on the east line of all lots in
Blocks A, B, C and D. In all other blocks, the west line of any memorial shall
be on the west line of lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.030) (Ord. 858, passed 3-1-1966)
§ 92.118 MARKERS; REQUIREMENTS; PLACEMENT IN BLOCKS A, B, C AND D.
   Markers shall be flush with the ground. All lettering on surface markers
must be cut in or incised. In Blocks A, B, C and D, the west line of markers
shall be placed on the west line of the lot and in all other blocks, the east
line of the markers shall be placed on the east line of the lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.040) (Ord. 757, passed 3-1-1960)
§ 92.119 CERTAIN STRUCTURES, DECORATIONS AND MATERIALS PROHIBITED; ABATEMENT BY
SEXTON.
   No coping, curbing, fencing, hedging, grave mounds, borders or enclosures of
any kind shall be allowed around any lot; and no walks of brick, cinders, tile,
stone, marble, terra-cotta, sand, cement, gravel or wood shall be allowed on
any lot. The sexton shall have the right to remove the same if so erected,
planted or placed. No glass or ceramic items will be allowed on any lot.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.050) (Ord. 14-1222-87, passed 12-22-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.120 SEXTON MAY STOP WORK OF ANY NATURE.
   The sexton shall have the right to stop all work of any nature, whenever, in
his or her opinion, proper preparations have not been made; or when tools and
machinery are insufficient or defective; or when work is being executed in a
manner as to threaten life or property; or when any reasonable request on the
part of the sexton is disregarded; or when work is not being executed according
to specifications; or when any person employed on the work violates any rule of
the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.060)
§ 92.121 MAUSOLEUMS OR TOMBS; PLACEMENT; MATERIALS.
   Mausoleums or tombs, either wholly or partially above ground, shall be
constructed only in lots so designated by the city and shall be built of first-
grade material similar in all respects to stone used in other memorials within
the cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.070)
§ 92.122 PRIVATE MAUSOLEUMS; REGULATIONS.
   When an interment is made in a private mausoleum, the casket must be metal-
lined and the crypt shall be hermetically sealed.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.080)
§ 92.123 CITY TO REGULATE ALL WORK; ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSTRUCTION OF
FOUNDATIONS.
   As a guarantee of good work and as protection to all lot owners, the city
reserves the right to excavate for and build all foundations, supervise the
setting of all markers and memorials, and to regulate all work done in the
cemetery. The city shall assume responsibility for the proper construction of
the foundation. The charge therefor shall be $5 per cubic foot, except in the
Veterans’ Cemetery which the fee shall be in accordance with amount paid by
Veterans Administration.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.090) (Ord. 878, passed 8-1-1967)
§ 92.124 UNDESIRABLE MEMORIAL, MAUSOLEUM OR TOMB; ABATEMENT.
   Should any memorial, mausoleum or tomb become unsightly, dilapidated or a
menace to visitors, the city shall have the right either to correct the
condition or to remove the same, with prior notification to next of kin when
possible, at the expense of the lot owner.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.150) (Ord. 603, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 92.125 MARKER REQUIREMENTS IN VETERAN’S CEMETERY.
   Only granite markers will be allowed in the veteran’s cemetery section.
(Ord. 21-0126-243, passed 1-26-2021)
FOUNDATIONS
§ 92.130 BUILDING OF FOUNDATION; RESTRICTED BY WEATHER.
   No foundations will be built when the weather is so that injury from frost
cannot be prevented. No heavy stone work may be set in inclement weather or
until the cement in the foundation shall have had time to harden thoroughly.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.100) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.131 FOUNDATIONS; SIZE.
   (A)   Foundations will be made to extend at least five inches beyond both
sides of the bottom base, or first masonry course above the ground, but the
sexton shall have the right to require a larger foundation when, in his or her
opinion, the weight of the structure requires it.
   (B)   Foundation orders must specify the exact size of the bottom base or
first masonry course above ground.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.110)
§ 92.132 FOUNDATIONS; DEPTH; FINISH.
   Foundations shall be built to a depth of at least three feet and deeper when
in the opinion of the sexton it is required, and shall be finished two inches
below the surface of the ground where lowest.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.120)
§ 92.133 FOUNDATION AND SETTING CHARGES; WHEN PAYABLE.
   Foundation and setting charges shall be payable in advance.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.130)
§ 92.134 FINISHING FOUNDATION; NOTICE TO SEXTON.
   The sexton shall have ten days’ notice before he or she is required to
finish any foundation.
(1986 Code, § 4.10.140)
§ 92.135 DAMAGE TO FOUNDATIONS.
   Concrete foundations and marble or granite slabs are not considered part of
the monument, and cemetery personnel and the city are not liable for damage
from mowers, grave digging or other cemetery maintenance.
(Ord. 09-1027-15, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 93: AIRPORT
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Established
   
93.02   Consent to ordinances
   
93.03   Jurisdiction of airport authority
   
93.04   General ordinances
   
93.05   Rules and regulations
   
93.06   Use of car
   
93.07   Compliance to Federal Aviation regulations
   
93.08   Airplanes parked on field
   
93.09   Restricted areas
   
93.10   Damage to aircraft
Buildings and Real Estate
   
93.25   Maintenance
   
93.26   Damage to airport
   
93.27   Storage space in hangar; fees
   
93.28   Real estate leased for farming purposes; oil and gas operations and
other businesses
Business Licenses
   
93.40   Business licenses
   
93.41   Items sold by airport; method of payment
   
93.42   Conducting an extended business; fee required
Aircraft
   
93.55   Operating aircraft over city; height above ground level
   
93.56   Operating emergency helicopter service
   
93.57   Acrobatics
   
93.58   Noise
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The city owns and operates an airport known as Fairfield Municipal Airport.
(1986 Code, § 12.02.010)
§ 93.02 CONSENT TO ORDINANCES.
   Any person making use of the area belonging to the airport, or found
thereon, shall be held to have consented to all ordinances of a general nature
as being applicable to his or her conduct in or over the airport, just as they
are applicable to persons within the city limits.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.010)
§ 93.03 JURISDICTION OF AIRPORT AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall have jurisdiction over the airport and persons in, on
or over it.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.020)
§ 93.04 GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city pertaining to the conduct of persons
shall be in full force and effect in the airport.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.030)
§ 93.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may promulgate those rules and regulations as necessary to
ensure the orderly conduct of the affairs of the airport. These rules and
regulations, when adopted, shall be printed and copies of the rules and
regulations put in prominent places throughout the airport. A copy of the
regulations shall be given to all persons leasing any real property within the
airport at the time the lease is entered into.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.040)
§ 93.06 USE OF CAR.
   (A)   The city may provide the use of an automobile to anyone arriving at
the airport by airplane requiring transportation to the city, but no other
destination, and for a period of two hours only at any particular time.
   (B)   The automobile will be maintained by the city and no fee charged for
its use.
   (C)   When a donation for the service is given, the donation shall be
applied to the Airport Fund.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.050)
§ 93.07 COMPLIANCE TO FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
   Anyone landing, taking off or flying over the Fairfield Municipal Airport
shall comply with all rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.060)
§ 93.08 AIRPLANES PARKED ON FIELD.
   (A)   Anyone parking an airplane on the airport field shall do so in an area
provided for that purpose.
   (B)   The airplane shall be tied down in a manner so that it shall be safe
from damages, theft and harm to anyone or anything within the airport.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.070) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No one shall be allowed in the hangars except persons renting space in
the hangars or authorized personnel.
   (B)   No one shall be allowed in the area west of the fence separating
automobile parking and aircraft parking or on the runways or taxiways, except
authorized personnel, pilots, passengers of incoming and outgoing airplanes,
and persons maintaining or storing airplanes.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.080) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 DAMAGE TO AIRCRAFT.
   Any person damaging, intentionally or unintentionally, an airplane, stored
or parked within the municipal airport, or anything pertaining thereto, shall
be held responsible for the damages and will be required to make restitution.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.090) Penalty, see §
93.99
BUILDINGS AND REAL ESTATE
§ 93.25 MAINTENANCE.
   The airport buildings and landing field shall be maintained by the city,
unless otherwise specified by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 12.06.010)
§ 93.26 DAMAGE TO AIRPORT.
   Any person damaging, intentionally or unintentionally, the airport
buildings, landing field or anything pertaining thereto, shall be held
responsible for the damages and will be required to make restitution.
(1986 Code, § 12.06.020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 STORAGE SPACE IN HANGAR; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Anyone may rent an airplane hangar who owns or co-owns an
airworthy aircraft providing space is available. If the aircraft which is
stored in the rented hangar is sold, the lessee or lessees of the hangar will
have six months to purchase another airworthy aircraft to be stored in the
rented hangar. In the even an airworthy aircraft is not stored in a rented
hangar within six months after the sale of the stored aircraft, the lessee of
the hangar space shall lose that space, and it will be leased to the first
person or persons on the waiting list who have an airworthy aircraft for
storage in the hangar. Hangar space may not be subleased.
      (2)   The hangar rent fees are hereby established as follows:
         (a)   Hangars 1 and 2: $110/month.
         (b)   Hangars 3, 4, 5, and 6: $100/month.
         (c)   Hangars 8, 9, 11, 12, and 13: $125/month.
         (d)   End storage units - 7 and 10: $62.50/month.
         (e)   Hangars 8, 9, 11, 12, and 13 and end storage units 7 and 10 are
in the hangar building currently under construction.
   (B)   Anyone may tie down his or her airplanes at the Fairfield Municipal
Airport, provided space is available. He or she must pay a fee of $5 per 24-
hour period.
   (C)   The single stand alone hangar will no longer be leased to airplane
owners and the City of Fairfield will use this building for equipment storage
and maintenance operations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the
Fairfield Municipal Airport.
(1986 Code, § 12.06.030) (Ord. 1457, passed - -1996; Ord. 14-0128-67, passed 1-
28-2014)
§ 93.28 REAL ESTATE LEASED FOR FARMING PURPOSES; OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS AND
OTHER BUSINESSES.
   The City Council may lease airport real estate for farming, oil and gas
operations and other business purposes when in its opinion it is advisable to
do so and in compliance with the state and federal regulations. When a lease is
permitted all parties involved shall reach an agreement, which shall include
the amount of the fee to be charged. The fee shall be paid at the time
stipulated by the agreement and paid to the City Collector and applied to the
Airport Fund.
(1986 Code, § 12.06.040) (Ord. 1457, passed - -1996)
BUSINESS LICENSES
§ 93.40 BUSINESS LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person conducting a business for which a license would be required
if it were located within the city shall secure a license and pay the fee
required.
   (B)   The City Clerk, or person authorized to issue the license, may
designate a deputy for purpose of issuing the license and receiving a fee
therefor.
(1986 Code, § 12.08.010)
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, see Title XI
Editor’s note:
   See McQuillin Mun. Corp. 3rd Ed. 4.136,11.03-11.03a.
§ 93.41 ITEMS SOLD BY AIRPORT; METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   Any item sold by the municipal airport shall be paid for by cash or credit
card with no credit extended unless otherwise stipulated by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 12.08.020)
§ 93.42 CONDUCTING AN EXTENDED BUSINESS; FEE REQUIRED.
   When someone wishes to conduct an extended business at the airport, he or
she must receive permission from the City Council, consent to the provisions of
this subchapter and pay a fee to the City Collector and the fee shall be
applied to the Airport Fund.
(1986 Code, § 12.08.030)
AIRCRAFT
§ 93.55 OPERATING AIRCRAFT OVER CITY; HEIGHT ABOVE GROUND LEVEL.
   No person shall operate any aircraft over any part of the city at a height
of less than 1,000 feet above ground level of the city, except while landing
the aircraft or taking off from an airfield, when in the landing and taking off
it is necessary for the aircraft to pass over the city.
(1986 Code, § 14.02.010) (Ord. 592, passed 11-19-1946) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.56 OPERATING EMERGENCY HELICOPTER SERVICE.
   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, this subchapter
shall not prohibit any helicopter from landing or taking off from the heliport
at the Fairfield Memorial Hospital, nor any helicopter from landing or taking
off at any other location within the city limits when necessary for emergency
purposes.
(1986 Code, § 14.02.015) (Ord. 1328, passed - -1988)
§ 93.57 ACROBATICS.
   No person operating an aircraft over the city shall perform any acrobatics
over any part of the city.
(1986 Code, § 14.02.020) (Ord. 592, passed 11-19-1946) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.58 NOISE.
   No person operating any aircraft over the city shall make any unnecessary
noise.
(1986 Code, § 14.02.030) (Ord. 592, passed 11-19-1946) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
93.02 through
93.10, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500.
(1986 Code, § 12.04.100)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
93.55,
93.57 or
93.58 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 14.02.040)
(Ord. 592, passed 11-19-1946)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Open Burning
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Open burning unlawful; exception
   
94.003   Allowable activities - miscellaneous
   
94.004   Activities allowed - landscape waste
   
94.005   Activities allowed - recreational fire
Volatile Gas
   
94.020   Restrictions
Abandoned, Unattended or Discarded Ice Boxes, Refrigerators and the Like
   
94.035   Air-tight door or lock which cannot be released from inside
   
94.036   Air-tight snap lock
Surface Toilets, Cesspools and Privy Vaults
   
94.050   Receptacles and proper screening
   
94.051   Privy vaults or cesspool unlawful
   
94.052   Public nuisance; when
   
94.053   Abatement
Weeds
   
94.065   Nuisance; when unlawful
   
94.066   Weeds, grass or plants a nuisance and unlawful
   
94.067   Abatement; notification
   
94.068   Abatement failure; municipal action; lien on property
   
94.069   Foreclosure on property
Fireworks and Explosives
   
94.080   Fireworks
   
94.081   Dynamite
   
94.082   Nitroglycerine; TNT
   
94.083   Gunpowder
   
94.084   Rules of State Fire Marshal
Ambulances
   
94.095   Ambulances for emergencies
   
94.096   Ambulances for convalescent and other non-medical transfers
 
   
94.999   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMICILE WASTE. Any refuse generated on a single-family domiciliary property
as a result of domiciliary activities. The term includes landscape waste, but
excludes garbage and trade waste.
   FIRE PIT APPARATUS. A structure that is no larger than four feet in
diameter, with a maximum depth of 12 inches below ground level, and a height
not exceeding two feet from ground level; and that is surrounded by masonry
stone (which would be bricks, concrete blocks or rock).
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooling and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE.  Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, yard trimmings and
crop residues.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in a way that the products of the
combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the
Environmental Protection Act, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 111-1/2, § 1009(b).
   PORTABLE FIREPLACE. A commercially prefabricated appliance such as a clay
chimenea or a metal outdoor fireplace. All parts for such appliance, including,
but not limited to, the screen, lid, and grate must be used according to the
manufacturer's direction.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set for cooking, enjoyment, or ceremonial
purposes.
   REFUSE. Any discarded matter; or any matter which is to be reduced in
volume, or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to
facilitate its discard, removal or disposal.
   RESTRICTED AREAS. The area within the boundaries of the city, plus a zone
extending one mile beyond the boundaries of the city.
   TRADE WASTE.  Any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any trade,
business, industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any
government or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term
includes landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste. The term excludes
dimensional lumber, plywood and particle board.
(1986 Code, § 14.04.010) (Ord. 954, passed 3-7-1972; Ord. 23-1024-346, passed
10-24-2023)
§ 94.002 OPEN BURNING UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning in the restricted area
except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus unless the chamber or apparatus is designed for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
   (C)    No person shall light or maintain any fire in the restricted area,
which is so close to any building or structure, or any flammable material
(other than that to be burned), so as to cause a fire hazard.
   (D)    No burn barrels are permitted to be used for any open burning within
the restricted area, except that a barrel may be used for firefighter training
purposes.
   (E)   All open burning fires must be extinguished at the request of any law
enforcement official, any firefighter employed with the City of Fairfield Fire
Department or any city official or their designee.
   (F)   Open burning shall be allowed only if atmospheric conditions will
readily dissipate contaminants.
   (G)   Open burning is not allowed if it creates a visibility hazard on
roadways, railroad tracks or
air fields.
   (H)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible government officials shall not
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (I)   Open burning for which a permit has been obtained from the Pollution
Control Board and is valid on the date of the burning shall not constitute a
violation of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 14.04.020) (Ord. 954, passed 3-7-1972; Ord. 23-1024-346, passed
10-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 ALLOWABLE ACTIVITIES - MISCELLANEOUS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this subchapter unless they
cause air pollution as defined in the Environmental Protection Act:
   (A)   The burning of waste gases provided all flares shall be equipped with
smokeless tips or comparable devices to reduce pollution;
   (B)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like.
(1986 Code, § 14.04.030) (Ord. 954, passed 3-7-1972; Ord. 23-1024-346, passed
10-24-2023)
§ 94.004 ACTIVITIES ALLOWED - LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   The following activities are not in violation of §§
94.002 and
94.003, unless they cause air pollution as defined in the Environmental
Protection Act:
   (A)   The open burning of landscape waste is only allowed on the premises on
which such landscape waste is generated.
   (B)   (1)   The burning of landscape waste only during the months of March 1
through May 15, September, October, November and December of each year in the
area outside the central business district on private property, and not on any
public street, sidewalk, alley or right-of-way, during the hours from sunrise
to sunset; and
      (2)   Any burning of landscape waste at sunset shall be immediately
extinguished by the person setting the fire.
   (C)   Before a landscape waste fire is set, the property owner or his/her
designee must have a means of extinguishing the fire available for immediate
use. Such means of extinguishment shall either be a 4-A functional fire
extinguisher or a functional garden hose with a working and functional water
spigot.
   (D)    The landscape waste fire must be attended to and monitored at all
times.
(1986 Code, § 14.04.040) (Ord. 954, passed 3-7-1972; Ord. 990, passed 10-9-
1973; Ord. 1036, passed 3-9-1976; Ord. 994, passed 3-12-1976; Ord. 23-1024-346,
passed 10-24-2023)
§ 94.005 ACTIVITIES ALLOWED - RECREATIONAL FIRE.
   A recreational fire shall be permitted within the restricted area, subject
to the conditions and limitations contained herein:
   (A)   A recreational fire may only be set and maintained in a fire pit
apparatus; or a portable fireplace.
   (B)   The recreational fire must be attended to and monitored at all times.
    (C)   Before a recreational fire is set, the property owner or his/her
designee must have a means of extinguishing the fire available for immediate
use. Such means of extinguishment shall either be a 4-A functional fire
extinguisher a functional garden hose with a working and functional water
spigot.
   (D)   The recreational fire must be extinguished on or before 11:00 p.m. No
recreational fire is permitted between the hours of 11:00 p.m. through and
including 7:00 a.m.
   (E)   Only the following material may be used for a recreational fire:
untreated, unpainted, clean, seasoned, dry wood and manufactured fire logs. No
construction materials may be used for a recreational fire. Propane and other
similar gases may be burned as long as the portable fireplace device is rated
for that type of fuel. However, a small amount of paper and/or brush may be
used to start the fire as kindling. Logs cannot be longer than 24 inches for
use for a recreational fire. All recreational fire material must be contained
within either the fire pit apparatus or the portable fireplace.
(Ord. 23-1024-346, passed 10-24-2023)
VOLATILE GAS
§ 94.020 RESTRICTIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of filling
tanks, cylinders or drums with volatile gas under pressure, when the tanks,
cylinders or drums are to be moved to other locations, unless all operations
for filling the tanks, cylinders or drums are at least 100 feet from each
boundary line of the premises used for these operations.
(1986 Code, § 14.06.010) (Ord. 638, passed 1-2-1951) Penalty, see §
94.999
ABANDONED, UNATTENDED OR DISCARDED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND THE LIKE
§ 94.035 AIR-TIGHT DOOR OR LOCK WHICH CANNOT BE RELEASED FROM INSIDE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave outside of
any building or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned,
unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or any other container of any
kind which has an air-tight door or lock which may not be released for opening
from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator or container.
(1986 Code, § 14.08.010) (Ord. 683, passed 2-16-1954) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.036 AIR-TIGHT SNAP LOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave outside of
any building or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned,
unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or any other container of any
kind which has an air-tight snap lock or doors from the ice box, refrigerator
or container.
(1986 Code, § 14.08.020) (Ord. 683, passed 2-16-1954) Penalty, see §
94.999
SURFACE TOILETS, CESSPOOLS AND PRIVY VAULTS
§ 94.050 RECEPTACLES AND PROPER SCREENING.
   All receptacles to surface toilets or cesspools within the corporate limits
of the city shall be properly screened or enclosed to prevent flies from
passing in or out of the receptacle of the toilets or cesspools.
(1986 Code, § 14.10.010) (Ord. 161, passed 7-2-1923)
§ 94.051 PRIVY VAULTS OR CESSPOOL UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to keep
or maintain on any premises owned or controlled by them, or any of them, any
privy, vault or cesspool within the city, wherever the premises abut or adjoin
upon any street or alley in which is located a sewer line of the sewer system
of the city.
(1986 Code, § 14.10.020) (Ord. 571, passed 12-4-1945) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.052 PUBLIC NUISANCE; WHEN.
   Any and all privies, vaults or cesspools so located in the city, as
described in §
94.051 shall be and they are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
(1986 Code, § 14.10.030) (Ord. 571, passed 12-4-1945)
§ 94.053 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation owning or controlling premises upon
which any nuisances as defined in §
94.052 is located, who fails to abate or correct the nuisance within 30 days
after having been notified by the Police Department of the city to abate the
nuisance, shall be fined.
(1986 Code, § 14.10.040)
   (B)   If any nuisance, as defined in §
94.052 is not abated by the person, firm or corporation owning or controlling
the premises upon which the nuisance is located, within 30 days after notice
has been given, as provided in division (A) above, then the Police Department
of the city shall abate the nuisance by removal, destruction or otherwise.
(1986 Code, § 14.10.050)
(Ord. 571, passed 12-4-1945) Penalty, see §
94.999
WEEDS
§ 94.065 NUISANCE; WHEN UNLAWFUL.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other
weeds of any kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city are
declared to be a nuisance and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow
or remain in any place.
(1986 Code, § 14.12.010) (Ord. 973, passed - -1972) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 WEEDS, GRASS OR PLANTS A NUISANCE AND UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants other than
trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
12 inches anywhere in the city; any plants or weeds exceeding these heights are
declared to be a nuisance.
(1986 Code, § 14.12.020) (Ord. 973, passed - -1972) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.067 ABATEMENT; NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of the city to serve or cause to
be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of any provision of this subchapter
and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days; if the premises
are unoccupied or the owner cannot be found in the city, the notice shall be
sufficient if mailed to the last known address of the owner of premises.
(1986 Code, § 14.12.030) (Ord. 973, passed - -1972)
§ 94.068 ABATEMENT FAILURE; MUNICIPAL ACTION; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   If a person so served does not abate the nuisance within the ten days,
the city or anyone authorized by them may cut the weeds and the cost of the
cutting shall be a lien upon the real estate affected superior to all other
liens and encumbrances except tax liens; provided that within 60 days after the
cost and expense is incurred, the municipality or person performing the
services by authority of the municipality in his, her or its own name files a
notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, which
notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a description of the real
estate sufficient for identification thereof, the amount of money representing
the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service and the date or dates
when the cost and expense was incurred by the municipality. Upon payment of the
cost and expense by the owner or person interested in the property after the
notice of lien has been filed, the municipality shall deliver to the person a
release of the lien.
   (B)   In addition, the municipality or the person filing the notice of lien
shall also serve, or cause to be served, the notice of lien personally on, or
shall send the notice of lien by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent
the tax bill for the general taxes on the real estate affected by the notice of
lien for the last preceding year. The notice of lien shall be delivered or sent
after the cutting of weeds on the real estate affected by the notice of lien.
The notice of lien served personally, or sent by certified mail under this
section shall further state the substance of this section and the substance of
this subchapter, implementing this section and shall further identify the real
estate affected by the notice of lien by common description, and shall identify
the location of the weeds to be cut.
(1986 Code, § 14.12.050) (Ord. 973, passed - -1972; Ord. 1416, passed - -1994)
§ 94.069 FORECLOSURE ON PROPERTY.
   Property subject to the lien for unpaid weed cutting charges may be
foreclosed and the property sold in a foreclosure proceeding in the Circuit
Court of the county.
(1986 Code, § 14.12.060) (Ord. 973, passed - -1972)
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 94.080 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to store any fireworks in the city excepting as may be
necessary for the performance of a public exhibition of pyrotechnics, as
hereinafter provided for. Any storage must be under the supervision of and
subject to the approval of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   It is unlawful to sell or offer for sale any fireworks or pyrotechnics
in the city; provided that public exhibitions of fireworks and pyrotechnics may
be given if a permit therefor be granted by the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   These exhibitions shall be given subject to the supervision of the
Fire Chief or of some person designated by him or her.
(1986 Code, § 14.14.010) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.081 DYNAMITE.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any dynamite in the city in excess of
five pounds on any one premises or in any one building.
(1986 Code, § 14.14.020) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.082 NITROGLYCERINE; TNT.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the city in any quantities, excepting for medical or
laboratory purposes, and for those purposes no more than one-quarter ounce
shall be stored in any one building or premises.
(1986 Code, § 14.14.030) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.083 GUNPOWDER.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any black powder or gunpowder or
guncotton in excess of five pounds on any one premises in the city.
(1986 Code, § 14.14.040) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.084 RULES OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   All explosives kept or stored in the city shall be kept and stored in
accordance with the rules enforced by the State Fire Marshal, with regard
thereto.
(1986 Code, § 14.14.050)
Editor’s note:
   See McQuillin Mun. Corp. (3rd Ed) 24.471 ff.
AMBULANCES
§ 94.095 AMBULANCES FOR EMERGENCIES.
   All ambulances operating on an emergency basis within the city shall be
equipped with the following: two-way radio communications, sirens, back boards,
oxygen, cots, splints, bandages, scissors and tape.
(1986 Code, § 14.16.010)
§ 94.096 AMBULANCES FOR CONVALESCENT AND OTHER NON-MEDICAL TRANSFERS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any ambulances operating for convalescent
transfers or any other non-medical transfers.
(1986 Code, § 14.16.020)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances on Private Property
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Duty of maintenance of private property
   
95.03   Enforcement of ordinance
   
95.04   Abatement of certain fines imposed in Municipal Court
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
95.15   Definitions
   
95.16   Inoperable motor vehicles
 
   
95.99   Penalty
NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the
following:
      (1)   Lumber, junk, trash or debris; and
      (2)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
(1986 Code, § 5.04.010)
§ 95.02 DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any person keep or maintain
the premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the
other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located.
(1986 Code, § 5.04.020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the city in any manner
authorized by law, and in addition, any person who by reason of another’s
violation of any provision of this chapter, suffers special damage to himself
or herself different from that suffered by other property owners throughout the
city generally, may bring an action to enjoin or otherwise abate an existing
violation.
(1986 Code, § 5.04.030)
§ 95.04 ABATEMENT OF CERTAIN FINES IMPOSED IN MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Municipal Court hearing officer is granted discretion to abate any fine
imposed, in Municipal Court, wherein a defendant provides satisfactory proof to
the hearing officer that he/she has cleaned up their property in the manner as
specified by the hearing officer.
(Ord. 22-0823-296, passed 8-23-2022)
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 95.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power, or a vehicle that is used for racing or demolition derby exhibition, or
a vehicle which is incapable of being driven upon the public highways in a
legal fashion and manner pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has been
rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in order to
perform ordinary service or repair operations, the service or repair operations
to be ongoing and completed within 60 days, nor to any motor vehicles that are
kept within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over 25
years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designated to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(1986 Code, § 5.06.010) (Ord. 1544, passed - -2001)
§ 95.16 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Inoperable motor vehicles declared to be a nuisance. Inoperable motor
vehicles, as defined in this subchapter, whether on public or private property,
are declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Disposition of inoperable motor vehicles. All persons are required to
dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof under their control
upon written notice received from the corporate authorities or any police
officer of the city commanding the disposition. The notice shall specify
required disposition of the inoperable motor vehicle or abandoned motor vehicle
within a period of not less than seven days.
   (C)   Hearing. The person or persons, or the designated agent thereof, to
whom the notice as specified in division (B) above is directed, shall have the
right to a hearing before the Municipal Court on the matter of whether the
motor vehicle cited in such notice is an inoperable motor vehicle in violation
of this section. All enforcement of this chapter shall be stayed pending said
hearing and determination by the Municipal Court.
   (D)   Towing. In the event that the Municipal Court finds that the motor
vehicle cited in such notice is an inoperable motor vehicle in violation of
this section, then the defendant shall, within seven days of service of the
Municipal Court's order finding the motor vehicle as being inoperable, dispose
of the motor vehicle or enclose the motor vehicle within a building. In the
event said vehicle is not disposed of or enclosed within a building within
seven days of service of the said order, then the city law enforcement
officers, or agents acting on their behalf, shall cause the towing or removal
of the inoperable motor vehicle without further, prior notice thereof. It shall
be the responsibility of the owner of said vehicle to provide documentation
and/or demonstrate the said vehicle has been put into operable condition to the
corporate authorities, law enforcement or the Municipal Court prior to towing
or removal of said vehicle. In the event no such written documentation and/or
demonstration of operability of said vehicle has been made to the corporate
authorities, law enforcement or the Municipal Court prior to towing or removal,
it shall be presumed that said vehicle remains inoperable and may be towed or
removed. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of
in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 through 4-214.
(1986 Code, § 5.06.020) (Ord. 1544, passed - -2001; Ord. 20-1013-229, passed
10-13-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.03 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which the nuisance is permitted to exist.
(1986 Code, § 5.04.040)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever causes, erects or continues any nuisance enumerated in
the provisions of §§
95.15 and
95.16 shall, for the first offense, be fined not less than $75 nor more than
$750. Each day a nuisance remains following the seven-day notice shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Every nuisance enumerated in §§
95.15 and
95.16 may be removed as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13 which
provides for the removal of garbage and debris from private property when the
owner of the property, after reasonable notice, refuses or neglects to remove
garbage and debris; and the city may collect from the owner the reasonable cost
of the removal. This cost is a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to
all subsequent liens and encumbrances, except tax liens, if within 60 days
after the costs and expenses incurred the city or person performing the service
by authority of the city, in his or her or its own name, files notice of the
lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. The notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for the
identification thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the costs and expense were incurred by
the municipality.
      (3)   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in the property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
(1986 Code, § 5.06.030)
(Ord. 1544, passed - -2001; Ord. 20-1013-228, passed 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Declaration of policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the city or any agent of these shall refuse to sell, rent,
lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of persons
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the person or persons
or discriminate against any person or persons because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in the conditions, terms,
privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or
real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection
therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 09-1208-21, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to the sale,
exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for the loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for use.
   OWNER. Any person or persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own
any beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable
title to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate
cooperative which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 09-1208-21, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute, or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with the owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability; and
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 09-1208-21, passed 12-8-2009) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-1208-21, passed 12-8-2009)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND PERMITS GENERALLY
      
111.   SOLICITORS
      
112.   HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
      
113.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
114.   PEDDLING ICE CREAM, CANDY, CONFECTION OR BEVERAGE
      
115.   LIQUOR
      
116.   EXHIBITIONS AND CARNIVALS
      
117.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
      
118.   GAMBLING; RAFFLES
      
119.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      
120.   VIDEO GAMING
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND PERMITS GENERALLY
Section
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Person subject to license
   
110.03   Forms
   
110.04   Signatures
   
110.05   Investigations
   
110.06   Fees
   
110.07   Termination of licenses
   
110.08   Building and premises
   
110.09   Change of location
   
110.10   Nuisances
   
110.11   Inspections
   
110.12   Revocations
   
110.13   Posting license
Cross-reference:
   Airport business licenses, see §§
93.40 through
93.42
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk in the absence of provision to the contrary. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of the
permit or license applied for.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.010)
§ 110.02 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself, herself or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively;
or performs or attempts to perform any part of the business or occupation in
the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.020)
§ 110.03 FORMS.
   Forms for licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared
and kept in a file by the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.030)
§ 110.04 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
City Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.040)
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances
of the city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of a
permit or permit, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the proper
officer for making the investigation within 48 hours of the time of the
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving
the application of copy thereof. All investigations except where otherwise
provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer
designated by the Mayor.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.050)
§ 110.06 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of part of the current license year the license fee
shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter of fraction
thereof during which the business has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.060)
§ 110.07 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the city where they are issued, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement of
the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, one
month prior to the date of the expiration; provided that a failure to send out
the notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the
licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor
shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a license.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.070)
§ 110.08 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for anything, or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. No
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning
requirements of the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.080)
§ 110.09 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to the City
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided that the
building and zoning requirements of the city are complied with.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.090)
§ 110.10 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make the inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality whose
business is governed by the provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same sufficient samples of the material or
commodity for the analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
city who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make
the inspection or take the sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate
sample of the commodity, or who interferes with the officer or employee while
in the performance of his or her duty in making the inspection; provided that
no license shall be revoked for that cause unless written demand is made upon
the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city,
stating that the inspection or sample is desired and the time it thought to
make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.110)
§ 110.12 REVOCATIONS.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor at any
time during the life of the license or permit for any violation by the licensee
or permittee of the code provisions relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; the
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.120)
§ 110.13 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for the business at all times.
(1986 Code, § 11.02.130)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Certificate of registration
   
111.03   Application for certificate of registration; fee
   
111.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
111.05   City policy on soliciting
   
111.06   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.07   Duty of solicitors
   
111.08   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.09   Time limit on soliciting
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs and/or services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication;
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project; or
      (5)   Requesting information on the background, occupation, economic
status, social status, religious status, political status, attitudes,
viewpoints, occupants of a residence, telephone number, address, furnishings or
the like of another person for the purpose of compiling the information as raw
data or refined data into a document, record, book or directory to be sold, or
to be used wholly or in part for a commercial purpose.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.010)
§ 111.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
in residences within this municipality, is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. The
certificate shall be carried by the solicitor.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.020)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made in
compliance with the chapter provisions relating to applications for licenses.
The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at that address; also business address if other than residence
address; also Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed by or who he or she represents; and the
length of time of the employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
      (9)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this chapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the ordinances of any other state municipality
regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States; and
      (13)   Any additional information as the City Clerk may deem necessary to
process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall require every applicant to submit to
fingerprinting by the Police Department of this municipality in connection with
the application for certificate.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications.
Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed
and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified with
the duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States, within five years of the date
of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter; nor to any person whose certificate of
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
   (F)   The fee charged for a certificate of registration as a solicitor under
this chapter shall be $100/day.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.030) (Ord. 13-0827-58, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Mayor, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for the certificate as herein required, and that the
issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the Mayor upon the application of the denial of the application. When the
applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall
be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificates of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Mayor if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material statement in
the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon
the revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the City Clerk to the
holder of the certificate in person or by certified United States mail
addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
   (C)   Immediately upon the giving of the notice the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
   (D)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.040)
§ 111.05 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the governing body of this
municipality that the occupant or occupants of the residences in this
municipality shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall be, or
shall not be, invited to their respective residence. If no determination is
made as is provided in §
111.06, then in that event, registration is not required.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.050)
§ 111.06 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided
by the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter, shall
comply with the following directions.
   (B)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall
be given in the manner following:
      (1)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “Only Solicitors Registered in Fairfield Invited” or “No Solicitors
Invited.”
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the City Clerk to persons
requested, at the cost.
      (3)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.060)
§ 111.07 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located to
first examine the notice provided for in §
111.06, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained in the
notice. If the notice states “Only Solicitors Registered in Fairfield Invited,”
then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein
provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states “No Solicitors Invited,” then the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.070) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the door bell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.06.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.080) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the door bell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as
herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1986 Code, § 11.04.090) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 112: HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Applications
   
112.03   Fee
   
112.04   Street peddlers
   
112.05   Fraud
   
112.06   Exemption
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for these licenses shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall
state thereon the description and number of vehicles, if any, intended to be
operated, the kind of merchandise to be peddled and the permanent address of
the peddler.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.020)
§ 112.03 FEE.
   The fee charged for a hawkers and peddler’s license pursuant to this chapter
shall be $100/day.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.030) (Ord. 13-0827-58, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 112.04 STREET PEDDLERS.
   No peddler shall ply his or her vocation on any street, sidewalk, park,
parkway or in any other public place unless his or her peddler’s license
specifies peddling in public places is permitted thereunder.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.040)
§ 112.05 FRAUD.
   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself, herself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler of the city or who shall barter, sell or peddle any
goods, or merchandise, or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to farmers and growers selling their own
products.
(1986 Code, § 11.06.070)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 113: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Applications
   
113.03   Fee
   
113.04   Fraud
   
113.05   Street itinerant merchants
   
113.06   Exemption
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to do business in the city as an itinerant
merchant without having first secured a license therefor as is herein provided.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, any merchant engaging or intending to
engage in business as a merchant in the city for a period of time not exceeding
100 days shall be considered as an ITINERANT MERCHANT, provided that peddlers
shall not be considered ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Every application for a license shall set forth the commodities to be sold,
and the place intended to be occupied or used for the business.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.020)
§ 113.03 FEE.
   The fee charged for an itinerant merchant’s license pursuant to this chapter
shall be $100/day.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.030) (Ord. 13-0827-58, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 113.04 FRAUD.
   Any licensed itinerant merchant who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating
or misrepresentation, whether through himself, herself or through an employee,
while acting as an itinerant merchant of the city or who shall barter, sell or
peddle any goods, or merchandise, or wares other than those specified in his or
her application for license, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.040) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 STREET ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   No itinerant merchant shall engage in business on any street, sidewalk,
park, parkway or in any other public place unless his or her itinerant
merchant’s license specifies doing business in public places is permitted
thereunder.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.060) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to farmers and growers selling their own
products.
(1986 Code, § 11.08.070)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLING ICE CREAM, CANDY, CONFECTION OR BEVERAGE
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Application; fee
   
114.03   Traffic hazard
   
114.04   Regulations
   
114.05   Temperature control
   
114.06   Inspections
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, or to peddle, any ice
cream, candy, confection or beverage for human consumption from any vehicle,
including motor vehicles and non-motorized vehicles, on any public street,
alley or parkway in the municipality without having a license therefor.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.010) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATION; FEE.
   Application for the licenses shall conform to the regulations of the chapter
relating to all applications. The annual fee shall be $25. The fee for daily
licenses shall be $5 per day.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.020) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964)
§ 114.03 TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand or remain in any place
where parking vehicles is prohibited, or to sell or offer any commodity for
sale on any through street, or at any place or time when an unusual traffic
hazard or danger to prospective customers exists; or within 200 feet of the
scene of any accident or destructive fire or any place where the members of the
Fire or Police Departments are responding to an emergency call.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.030) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
be thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used. It shall be unlawful to permit
stale foods, decaying matter or any other waste material or product to
accumulate in or on any vehicle while it is so used.
   (B)   If unwrapped foodstuffs are transported in any vehicle, the foods
shall be carried in a portion or compartment of the vehicle which is screened
and protected against dust and insects.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.040) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 TEMPERATURE CONTROL.
   Readily perishable foods or beverages, while in transit, shall be maintained
at a temperature of not less than 35°F and not more than 50°F. The temperature
for hot liquid foods or beverages shall be maintained at not less than 150°F;
and for frozen foods at not more than 32°F. The compartments in vehicles used
for carrying those food shall be so constructed, equipped and maintained as to
preserve the temperature as above indicated for the respective types of food.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.050) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall the duty of the Mayor to make or cause to be made those inspections
as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.10.060) (Ord. 825, passed 12-15-1964)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 115: LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
115.15   License required
   
115.16   Application
   
115.17   Restrictions on licenses
   
115.18   Term of license
   
115.19   Examination of applicant for local license
   
115.20   Classification; fees
   
115.21   Number of licenses
   
115.22   Transfer of license
   
115.23   Renewal of license
   
115.24   Revocation; suspension
Operation
   
115.35   Hours of operation
   
115.36   Insurance required
   
115.37   Deposition of fees
   
115.38   Records
   
115.39   Change of location
   
115.40   Sanitary conditions
   
115.41   Employees
   
115.42   Location; restrictions
   
115.43   Inspections
Sales
   
115.55   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
115.56   [Reserved]
   
115.57   Sale to underaged persons
   
115.58   Sale to intoxicated person; habitual drunkard
   
115.59   Gambling
   
115.60   Enforcement of requirements for supermarkets as holders of Class B
liquor licenses
   
115.61   Enforcement of requirements for restaurants as holders of Class C
liquor licenses
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator-occupied residence providing accommodations
for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent, in
operation for more than ten nights in a 12 month period. Breakfast may be
provided to the guests only. Bed and breakfast establishments shall not include
motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service establishments.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors which conforms to the definition of a
CLUB, as provided by the statute.
   PACKAGE STORE. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as a place where beer, wine and alcoholic liquor are sold to
the general public at retail where shoppers serve themselves from open shelves
and pay for the purchases at the exit. In order to be defined as a PACKAGE
STORE under the terms of this chapter, the business in question shall not
engage in the sale of any item other than beer, wine and alcoholic liquor, as
its principal business. Total sales of any item or items other than beer, wine
and alcoholic liquor shall not exceed 20% of the gross retail sales of the
business for any six-month period.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests; provided further that
no restaurant licensed as that shall sell alcoholic liquor except with meals.
In order to be defined as a RESTAURANT under the terms of this chapter, the
business in question shall not expend more than 50% of the total cost of food
and beverage items purchased by the business for sale to customers during any
six-month period for the cost of alcoholic liquor.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SUPERMARKET. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as a place where food staples, groceries, produce and other
food-related and sundry items are sold to the general public at retail where
shoppers serve themselves from open shelves and pay for the purchases at the
exit. In order to be defined as a SUPERMARKET under the terms of this chapter,
the business in question shall not engage in the sale of alcoholic liquors as
its principal business. Total sales of alcoholic liquor shall not exceed 20% of
the gross retail sales of the business for any six-month period.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.010) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985; Ord. 21-0413-252, passed
4-13-2021; Ord. 21-0525-256, passed 5-25-2021; Ord. 22-0510-285, passed 5-10-
2022)
LICENSES
§ 115.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city any alcoholic
liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in violation of the
terms of that license.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.020) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses shall be made to the Local Liquor Commissioner, in
writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following statements and information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co- partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of the corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the
name and address of the person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made and location where stored;
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license and type of license applied for;
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of the application;
   (H)   A statement whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
is otherwise disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or the laws of the state;
   (I)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor;
   (J)   The date of incorporation if a state corporation, or the date of
becoming qualified under the State Business Corporation Act, being ILCS Ch.
805, Act 5, to transact business in the state if a foreign corporation; and
   (K)   A statement that the applicant is fully qualified to receive the
license applied for, has fully informed himself or herself of all of the
provisions of this chapter and amendments thereto, understands the same and
will agree to fully comply with all other applicable ordinances of the city,
laws of the state and laws of the United States.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.030) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.17 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the city;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill-fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license under this chapter has been revoked for cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this chapter would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of the copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license under this
chapter for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
violation;
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
issued;
   (N)   Any law-enforcing public official, any Mayor or member of the City
Council and no official shall be interested in any way, either directly or
indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (P)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of § 28-1 of, or as proscribed by §
28-3 of the Criminal Code of 1961, approved July 28, 1961, as heretofore or
hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (Q)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   (R)   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   (S)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of the
corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp for the current tax period;
   (T)   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   (U)   Any person, firm or corporation not eligible for state retail liquor
dealer’s licenses; and
   (V)   A person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.040) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.18 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall terminate on April 30 following
the issuance thereof.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.050) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.19 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT FOR LOCAL LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner has the right to examine, or cause to
be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof of
his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for the
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her
agent to act on his or her behalf, as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.060) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.20 CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   Classifications and fees therefor are as follows:
   (A)   Class A, which shall only permit the retail sale of beer and wine in
sealed containers for consumption off the premises where sold only, and not for
resale in any form; except for a package store. A package store may sell any
alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, in sealed containers for consumption
off the premises where sold only, and not for resale in any form. The annual
license fee for a Class A license is reduced to $2,000;
   (B)   Class B, which shall only permit the retail sale by a supermarket of
beerand wine as those terms are defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934 in
sealed containers for consumption off the premises where sold, and not
permitting resale in any form; and provided further, that no Class B licensee
shall operate, display or sell any beer and wine except in an area physically
segregated by walls or other barriers from the rest of the business operations
of the licensee, with public access restricted to the liquor sales area as
required to prevent persons under the age of 21 years from having unsupervised
access to the sales area. The annual license fee for a Class B license is
$2,000;
   (C)   Class C, which shall permit the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor at
a restaurant as defined in §
115.01, for consumption on the premises where sold and not for resale in any
form. No restaurant shall sell alcoholic liquor except with meals at a dining
table and not across a bar. A holder of a Class C license must obtain a Class V
license in order to operate video gaming in the restaurant. The annual license
fee for a Class C license is reduced to $500;
   (D)   Class D, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption only on the premises where sold to be issued to a regularly
organized club as defined in §
115.01, the sales to be made only to members of the club. The annual license
fee for a Class D license is reduced to $500. No Class D license shall be
issued until the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has satisfied himself or
herself that the club applying for the license was actually and in fact
organized for some purpose or object other that the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquor;
   (E)   Class E, which shall permit the retail sale of beer only in sealed
containers for consumption off the premises where sold and not for resale in
any form, by a regularly organized club as defined in §
115.01, the sales to be made only to members of the club. A Class E license
shall be issued as a supplemental license only to the holder of a valid and
fully paid Class D license issued under this chapter. The annual license fee
for a Class E license shall be $1,000, which fee shall be in addition to all
other fees required under this section;
   (F)   License fees shall be prorated in the year in which the license is
first issued;
   (G)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be designated by the
classification letter provided in this section; and
   (H)   Class G which shall permit the retail sale of beer only from a
location on the golf course for consumption on the premises of the golf course.
The annual license fee for a Class G license is $200.
   (I)   Hotel license.
      (1)   Class I, which shall only permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption only in a hotel or motel. This license shall issue only
for hotels and motels. No person shall receive a hotel license to sell
alcoholic liquor upon any premises unless the premises has the qualifications
described in the definition of HOTEL as set forth in division (I)(2) below. The
license may issue to the hotel owner or hotel operator or may issue to the
lessee of the restaurant situated within the hotel provided that in all events
the licensed premises shall be the entire hotel and licensee shall be
responsible with regard to the provisions of this section for the licensed
premises. The license fee for a hotel license shall be $2,000 per annum. A
violation of this section by a licensee holding a license as the lessee of the
hotel restaurant shall also be considered to be the violation of the hotel
premises for licensing purposes regardless of in whose name the license is held
or has been held.
      (2)   For purposes of this section HOTEL means every building or other
structure kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to be
a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations
are offered for adequate pay to transient travelers and guests in which 25 or
more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one
or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings, structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity; said hotel must actually be
engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms and must be filing
returns and paying the city motel-hotel tax.
   (J)   Class J, which shall entitle the licensee to make consumption sales of
alcoholic liquor only as specifically hereinafter provided; the licensee shall
make no other consumption sales and shall make no package sales. This license
shall issue only for hotels and motels. No person shall receive a Class J
license to sell alcoholic liquor upon any premises unless it has the
qualifications described in the definition of HOTEL as set forth in division
(I)(2) above, except that the premises shall not be required to have a
restaurant. This license shall entitle licensee to provide drink tickets as an
amenity to the  licensee's registered guests whose room rentals are subject to
the city motel-hotel tax; the licensee shall not provide drink tickets except
with the rental of a room and the licensee shall not make any separate sales of
tickets or of alcoholic liquor; tickets shall be date stamped and shall be
redeemable only on the date of issue and shall be limited to three tickets per
transient guest per day. The alcoholic liquor shall be served only by an
employee of the licensee and the alcoholic liquor shall be consumed upon the
licensed premises only within a predesignated area during a predesignated time,
each of which must appear upon the drink ticket. No tickets shall be redeemable
as or used for room service and no alcoholic liquor shall be provided to any
guests or other persons for consumption within any room upon the licensed
premises except the pre-designated area. The license fee for a Class J license
shall be $800 per annum.
   (K)   Banquet room license. Class K, which shall entitle the licensee to
make consumption sales of alcoholic liquor; the licensee shall make no package
sales. The license shall issue only for a place of business which has one or
more separate rooms used for accommodating banquets, parties, meetings, and
similar functions. Licensee shall not permit consumption of alcoholic liquor
except during the scheduled time of the banquet, party, meeting, or similar
event. The manager or other employee of licensee must be on duty and on the
licensed premises at all times any person or persons are upon the premises and
all events shall be under the supervision and direction of the employee or
employees of licensee. No licensee shall operate a lounge or a bar upon the
licensed premises at any time except during and for scheduled banquet, party,
meeting or similar event. The license fee for a banquet room license shall be
$2,000 per annum.
   (L)   Temporary special event license. Class L, which shall entitle the
licensee to make consumption sales of alcoholic liquor. This license shall be a
temporary license which shall be issued solely for one day. The application for
such temporary special event license shall designate the premises for which a
license is desired and the hours of operation. The license fee for a temporary
special event license shall be $50 per day. All beverages, including alcoholic
liquors, served for consumption during a special event shall only be served
within and consumed from a paper, plastic, or styrofoam cup or container; no
beverage shall be served for consumption during a special event within a glass
bottle, cup, or mug or a metal can, cup, or mug or similar type container.
   (M)   Temporary special event permit license. Class M, which shall entitle
the licensee to make sales of alcoholic liquor; the license shall issue only to
a licensee who holds a valid license under one of the other license
classifications of the city and the licensee shall be subject to the
restrictions of such license with regard to the type of sales which licensee
may make. The permit license shall be a temporary license which shall be issued
for one day. The application for such temporary special event permit license
shall designate the premises for which a license is desired and the hours of
operation. The license fee for a temporary special event permit license shall
be $100 per day. No temporary special event permit license shall issue unless
the applicant shall provide written authorization or permission evidencing its
right to use the premises subject of the temporary special event permit
license, provide general liability insurance in an amount required within the
permission or authorization, and comply with all other applicable provisions of
this chapter. All beverages, including alcoholic liquors, served for
consumption during a special event shall only be served within and consumed
from a paper, plastic, or styrofoam cup or container; no beverage shall be
served for consumption during a special event within a glass bottle, cup, or
mug or a metal can, cup, or mug or similar type container.
   (N)   Downtown sidewalk dining liquor permit. Class N, which shall entitle
the permittee to make sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption in accordance
with the provisions of its license within a sidewalk dining area. A downtown
sidewalk dining liquor permit shall issue only to a licensee who is holder of a
valid Class C license; it shall be a permit granting additional privileges to
such licensee. The fee for a downtown sidewalk dining liquor permit shall be
$100 per annum. A downtown sidewalk dining liquor permit shall permit the
licensee to make sales for consumption within the sidewalk dining area subject
to the following restrictions:
      (1)   No alcoholic beverage may be stored or mixed within the sidewalk
dining area;
      (2)   A sign must be posted in a visible location within the sidewalk
dining area that states: "It is unlawful to remove alcoholic beverages from the
sidewalk dining area."
   (O)   Festival events license.
      (1)   Class O, which shall entitle the licensee to make consumption sales
of beer and wine on specific dates. The license shall issue only for a location
situated within a festival area. The application for a festival events license
shall designate the specific dates that alcoholic liquor shall be available for
consumption upon the licensed premises. The license fee for a festival events
license shall be $100 per day for each day specified within the application,
provided that the maximum fee during each licensing year shall not exceed $500.
No festival events license shall issue unless the applicant shall provide
written authorization or permission evidencing its right to use an area within
the festival area, provide general liability insurance in an amount required
within the permission or authorization, and comply with all other applicable
provisions of this chapter. All beverages, including alcoholic liquors, served
for consumption during a festival event shall only be served within and
consumed from a paper, plastic, or styrofoam cup or container; no beverage
shall be served within a glass bottle, cup, or mug or a metal can, cup, or mug
or similar type container.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, FESTIVAL AREA is the geographic area
in downtown consisting within the borders of: NE/SE 4th Street (to the east);
Main Street/Route 15 (to the north); N/S 1st Street (to the west); and Delaware
Street/Route 15 (to the south).
   (P)   Retail business customer license. Class P, which shall entitle the
licensee to make consumption sales of alcoholic liquor; the licensee shall make
no package sales. The licensee shall, except during events subject to a
temporary special event permit license, make sales only of beer and wine. The
license shall issue only to a retail business whose primary sales are not the
sale of alcoholic liquor or food and for which the sale of alcoholic liquor is
only an amenity offered for sale to customers of the retail business. The
licensed premises shall have no lounge, bar, or other similar area; only a
service bar is permitted. The licensed premises may include the entire business
premises of licensee, which business premises shall be fully described with the
application for license. All beverages served for consumption upon the business
premises shall be served only within and consumed from a paper, plastic, or
styrofoam cup or container; no beverage shall be served within a glass bottle,
cup, or mug or metal can, cup, or mug or similar type container. A retail
business customer license shall also entitle licensee to apply for a temporary
special event permit license which permits the sale of all alcoholic liquor for
consumption and which is not restricted to sale of beer and wine only. The
licensee fee for a retail business customer license shall be $2,000 per annum.
   (Q)   Bed and breakfast. A Class Q license shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor on the premises of any bed and breakfast for consumption on
the premises of those people who are upon the bed and breakfast premises with
the permission of the operator of the bed and breakfast establishment. The
annual license fee for a Class Q license is $500.
   (R)   Class V, which applies only to Class C licenses, which shall permit
the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail on the premises specified for
consumption on the premises, only if such sale is secondary to the business of
video gaming. The annual fee for such license shall be $2,500.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.070) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985; Ord. 1306, passed - -1987;
Ord. 1653, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 19-024-186, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-0223-
245, passed 2-23-2021; Ord. 21-0413-252, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 21-0525-256,
passed 5-25-2021; Ord. 21-0824-263, passed 8-24-2021; Ord. 22-0510-285, passed
5-10-2022; Ord. 22-0524-286, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 115.21 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The total number of all Class A licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed four.
   (B)   The total number of all Class B licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed four.
   (C)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class C licenses issued
and in force.
   (D)   The total number of all Class D licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed four.
   (E)   The total number of all Class E licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed four.
   (F)   The total number of all Class G licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed one.
   (G)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class I licenses issued
and in force.
   (H)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class J licenses issued
and in force.
   (I)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class K licenses issued
and in force.
   (J)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class L licenses issued
and in force.
   (K)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class M licenses issued
and in force.
   (L)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class N licenses issued
and in force.
   (M)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class O licenses issued
and in force.
   (N)   There shall not be a limit to the number of Class P licenses issued
and in force.
   (O)   The total number of all Class Q licenses issued and in force at any
time in any year shall not exceed one.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.080) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985; Ord. 1306, passed - -1987;
Ord. 1653, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 17-0328-123, passed 3-28-2017; Ord. 19-0924-
186, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-0223-245, passed 2-23-2021; Ord. 21-0413-252,
passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 22-0510-285, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 115.22 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
   (B)   The license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided that executors
or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
the decedent, or the insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the
license, but not longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of the licensee.
   (C)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any
period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.130) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.23 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided that he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises
for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for that purpose; provided
further, that the renewal privilege provided in this chapter shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the City Council
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.150) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.24 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor may suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause any
liquor dealer’s license for any violation of any provisions of this chapter, or
for any violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor,
as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.250) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
OPERATION
§ 115.35 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The hours of operation of a licensee holding a retail liquor license
under this chapter shall be on Mondays through Saturdays between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m.
   (B)   On Sundays, the hours of operation of a licensee holding a retail
liquor license under this chapter shall be between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
(noon) and 9:00 p.m. All sales of alcoholic liquors on Sunday by holders of
Class C, Class D or Class G liquor licenses shall be for consumption only on
the premises where sold as required of all Class C, Class D and Class G liquor
license holders.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall require the licensees to operate for all
hours available for operation under this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.090) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985; Ord. 14-1125-84, passed
11-25-2014; Ord. 15-0526- 90, passed 5-26-2015; Ord. 16-0628-113, passed 6-28-
2016; Ord. 21-0209-244, passed 2-9-2021; Ord. 21-0824-263, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 115.36 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter unless the applicant files
with the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, certifying that the applicant has in force and effect
the insurance covering the licensee and premises from all liability imposed by
Article VI, Section 14, of the State Liquor Control Act and all amendments
thereto.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.100) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.37 DEPOSITION OF FEES.
   Fees shall be paid to the Liquor Control Commissioner at the time
application is made, and shall be turned over to the Treasurer. In the event
the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant;
if the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the Industrial
Fund or in other fund designated by the Council by proper action.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.110) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.38 RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued and shall
furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof. Upon revocation or suspension
of any license, the City Clerk shall immediately give written notice thereof to
the Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.120) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.39 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A license issued under this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license. The
location may be changed only when and upon the written permit to make the
change shall be issued by the Mayor. No change of location shall permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter and of the laws of the state.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.140) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.40 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with the
ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.160) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.41 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any disease to work in or about
any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of liquor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years as an employee
of a licensee to:
      (1)   Draw, pour or mix alcoholic liquor on the business premises of a
licensee;
      (2)   Attend bar on the business premises of a licensee;
      (3)   Place, handle, distribute or stock alcoholic liquor on open shelves
in the business premises of a licensee;
      (4)   Sell alcoholic liquor on the business premises of a licensee;
      (5)   Carry out alcoholic liquor from the business premises of a licensee
for the convenience of retail customers of the licensee; and
      (6)   Deliver or distribute alcoholic liquor purchased from a licensee to
customers of the licensee who are outside the business premises of a licensee.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.170) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.42 LOCATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their wives or children.
   (B)   For churches, the measurement of 100 feet shall be measured by
beginning at the property line of the prospective licensee and ending at the
part of the exterior of the worship portion of the church building that is
closest to the prospective licensee.
   (C)   For: (i) schools, (ii) hospitals, or (iii) homes for the aged or
indigenous persons or for veterans, their wives or children, the measurement of
100 feet shall be measured by beginning at the property line of the prospective
licensee and ending at the property line of those places listed in (i) through
(iii) of this division.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.180) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985; Ord. 22-0510-285, passed
5-10-2022)
§ 115.43 INSPECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which any
license has been issued at any time upon verbal request of any police officer,
the Health Officer, the Liquor Control Commissioner or any person designated by
him, her or any member of the City Council for the purpose of making an
inspection of the premises or any part thereof.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.240) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
SALES
§ 115.55 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor at
any store or other place of business where the majority of customers are
minors, of school age, or where the principal business transacted consists of
school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for those minors.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.190) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.56 [RESERVED].
§ 115.57 SALE TO UNDERAGED PERSONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age from time to time provided
by the laws of the state to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any
place in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age from time to time provided
by the laws of the state to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the city where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (C)   In every place in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold there shall
be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall be
supplied by the City Clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
      WARNING
      You are subject to a fine of up to $500 under ordinances of the City of
Fairfield if you are under age and you purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any holder of a Class A liquor license, or his or
her agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age from time
to time provided by the laws of the state from purchasing alcoholic liquors to
be or remain in the licensed premises or in any room or compartment adjoining
or adjacent to the licensed premises.
   (E)   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Mayor may suspend or
revoke the retail liquor dealer’s license for any violation of division (D)
above.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of
which he or she may be the parent or guardian to violate any of the provisions
of this section.
   (G)   It is unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person
under the age from time to time provided by the laws of the state.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person under the age from time to time provided
by the laws of the state to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor as an
employee of any retail licensee.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.210) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.58 SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSON; HABITUAL DRUNKARD.
   It is unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealers license to sell,
deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or to any person
known to him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift or insane, feeble-
minded or distracted person.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.220) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.59 GAMBLING.
   It is unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor, except gambling as is permitted by the laws of the state.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.230) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.60 ENFORCEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPERMARKETS AS HOLDERS OF CLASS B
LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The City Liquor Commissioner, or his or her delegate, shall have the
right to examine the books and records of any supermarket holding a Class B
liquor license to determine whether or not the Class B license holder fits the
definition of a supermarket, and specifically to determine whether nor not the
gross sale of alcoholic liquor by the Class B license holder exceeds the 20% of
gross sales as set forth in the definition of supermarket in this chapter. The
Class B license holder shall make its books and records available upon notice
by the Liquor Commissioner, or his or her delegate, within five days after
receiving written notice of the examination.
   (B)   If a Class B license holder exceeds the 20% requirement for gross
sales of alcoholic liquor as set forth in this chapter, a notice of the
violation shall be sent to the Class B license holder, and the Class B license
holder shall have 30 days to comply with the 20% requirements in the definition
of supermarket. If the Class B license holder has not complied with the 20%
requirement and the definition within 30 days after receipt of notice of
noncompliance of the requirement, the Class B license shall be revoked.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.261) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.61 ENFORCEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS FOR RESTAURANTS AS HOLDERS OF CLASS C
LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The City Liquor Commissioner or his or her designate, shall have the
right to examine the books and records of any restaurant holding a Class C
liquor license to determine whether or not the Class C license holder fits the
definition of restaurant, and specifically to determine whether or not the
Class C holder meets the 50% expenditure requirement for alcoholic liquor as
set forth in the definition of restaurant in this chapter. The Class C license
holder shall make its books and records available upon notice by the Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designate, within five days after receiving written
notice of the examination.
   (B)   If a Class C license holder does not meet the 50% requirement as set
forth in this chapter, a notice of the violation shall be sent to the Class C
license holder and the Class C license holder shall have 30 days to comply with
the 50% requirement in the definition of restaurant. If the Class C license
holder has not complied with the 50% requirement in the definition of
restaurant within 30 days after receipt of notice of noncompliance of the
requirement, the Class C liquor license shall be revoked.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.262) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense or
imprisoned in the county jail for not exceeding six months, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
(1986 Code, § 11.14.260) (Ord. 1265, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 116: EXHIBITIONS AND CARNIVALS
Section
   
116.01   License required
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Conditions of license
   
116.04   Licenses; fees
   
116.05   Insurance
   
116.06   Athletic exhibitions; license fee
   
116.07   Supervision
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate within the city any exhibitions
or carnivals which are open to the public without first securing a license
therefor.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.010) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVALS. Amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for the
conduct of games of skill, food-dispensing facilities and sideshows. A CARNIVAL
shall not include gambling devices, games of chance, lotteries, punch boards or
other activities in violation of city ordinances.
   EXHIBITIONS. Circuses, menageries, carnivals, sideshows and other similar
amusement enterprises which are open to the public and for admission to which a
fee is charged.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.020)
§ 116.03 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to other requirements set forth herein, the applicant
shall furnish suitable evidence of his or her intention and ability to comply
with the following conditions: the operator and sponsor of the carnival or
exhibition shall each be wholly responsible for maintaining order, and for
keeping the site clean, free of trash, papers and other debris. Trash
containers in adequate numbers shall be placed in convenient locations for the
use of the public.
   (B)   No rides shall be placed in operation for public use until the same
has been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical and other hazards, by
the officers or employees of the city having jurisdiction. Adequate safeguards
shall be placed to protect both operators and the general public from
inadvertently coming into contact with moving parts, belts, motor gears,
electrical switches and other possible or potential hazards.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.030) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   Upon satisfactory application being made and approved by the Mayor,
the City Clerk shall issue a license.
   (B)   (1)   The following schedule of fees shall apply to the licenses:
Minimum fee                                                          $15
Carnivals                                                            $2 per day
Circuses                                                             $2 per day
Exhibition of inanimate objects                                      $2 per day
Menageries                                                           $2 per day
Rides                                                                $2 per day
Sideshows and concessions                                            $2 per day
Other public amusements or for exhibitions for which no specific fee $2 per day
is stated
 
      (2)   No fee shall be charged for any amusement, exhibition or carnival
where the same is sponsored by or given for the benefit of any religious,
educational, charitable, social or fraternal organization.
   (C)   The following schedule of deposits shall apply to licensees:
      (1)   A trash deposit of $100 per exhibition or carnival, refundable upon
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   A trash deposit of $100 shall be charged for any amusement,
exhibition or carnival where the same is sponsored by or given for the benefit
of any religious, educational, charitable, social or fraternal organization.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.040)
§ 116.05 INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued for conducting an exhibition or carnival until
the applicant therefor has placed on file with the City Clerk a certificate or
certificates of insurance indicating that there is in effect public liability
insurance covering any damages arising out of the use and operation of any and
all devices and facilities operated in connection with the carnival or
exhibition. The insurance shall be in the minimum amount of $100,000 for each
person and $300,000 for each accident.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.050)
§ 116.06 ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any race between
persons, animals or vehicles, boxing or wrestling match, or any other athletic
contest or exhibition for admittance to which a fee is charged without having
first secured a license therefor; provided that no license shall be required
for baseball, basketball or football games, or for any exhibition given under
the auspices or for the benefit of any religious, educational, charitable,
social or fraternal organization.
   (B)   The fee for these licenses shall be $3.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.060) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 SUPERVISION.
   For the purpose of preserving and maintaining order, a sufficient number of
police officers shall be admitted to the exhibitions free of charge.
(1986 Code, § 11.22.070)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 117: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Authority to regulate occupations
   
117.03   Permits required for drilling, excavations or erecting tanks
   
117.04   Application
   
117.05   Insurance and bonds
   
117.06   Fees
   
117.07   Standards of materials and installations
   
117.08   Compliance with federal and state laws
   
117.09   Obstruction of streets
   
117.10   Interference with public property
   
117.11   Tanks or other facilities for the storage of oil pipe lines
   
117.12   Interpretation
   
117.13   Disposal of oil waste and procedure of street excavations
   
117.14   Restoration of property
   
117.15   Inspection
   
117.16   Savings clause
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Fairfield, Illinois.
   CITY CLERK. The Clerk of the City of Fairfield.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Fairfield.
   GAS. Means and includes natural gas.
   LESSEE. A person holding an oil and gas lease on real estate in the city.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Fairfield.
   OIL. Means and includes petroleum.
   OWNER. The owner of real estate in the City of Fairfield.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit has been granted under the terms of
this chapter.
   PERSON. Both the singular and plural and shall also mean and include a
natural person, individual, firm, co-partnership, association, corporation,
society, syndicate or any other organizations or combination of persons or
individuals.
   WELL or WELLS. The hole or holes which is or are drilled or put down for the
purpose of mining for and producing petroleum and natural gas or either within
the corporate limits of the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.010) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.02 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE OCCUPATIONS.
   It is hereby declared that the business of drilling for, obtaining and
producing and marketing oil and gas in the corporate limits of the city is a
hazardous and dangerous occupation and business, and that it is necessary in
the public interest and for protection of the health of the inhabitants of the
city and the prevention of danger from fire, explosions, dangerous conditions
and the prevention of public nuisances that these occupations be regulated
within the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.020) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.03 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR DRILLING, EXCAVATIONS OR ERECTING TANKS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to drill or to commence
to drill a well for oil and gas, or either, in the corporate limits of the city
or to lay or to commence to lay, install or maintain any pipe line or make any
excavation in any part of the streets, alleys, highways, parking spaces or
sidewalk areas or other public property in the city, or to erect or use a tank
or tanks for the storing or transportation of oil or gas within the corporate
limits of the city without permit so to do first having been granted to the
person as provided in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.030) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any permit for the drilling of any well or the laying of any
pipe line shall be issued a written application therefor, signed by the
applicant or some duly authorized person in his or her behalf shall be filed
with the City Clerk. Applications for the drilling of a well shall be made on
forms to be provided by the city and shall state the block and exact lot or
location thereon where the proposed well is to be drilled. Every application
for the laying of a pipe line across or along any of the streets, alleys,
parkways or public grounds of the city shall set forth the name of the owner of
the pipe line and the use or purpose to which the same shall be devoted, the
size, beginning and terminus thereof and the depth at which the same is
proposed to be laid, and the interference, if any, that is proposed or will be
necessitated by the laying, with paved streets, sidewalks, parkways, telephone
or lighting lines, water and gas mains, sewers and other property of the city
or of any public utility. All applications shall be verified before an officer
authorized to administer oath.
   (B)   All permits shall, after the same have been ordered issued, shall be
signed by the Mayor or Acting Mayor and attested by the City Clerk under the
corporate seal of the city.
   (C)   No permit issued hereunder shall be transferable or assignable.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.040) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   (A)   No permit for the drilling or putting down of any well shall be issued
until the applicant shall have procured public liability insurance in an amount
of not less than $15,000, and property damage insurance in an amount of not
less than $20,000 and filed certificates showing that the insurance has been
obtained and is in force with the City Clerk, with each application. No permit
shall be issued to drill a well or lay a pipe line until the applicant shall
have filed with the City Clerk a bond running to the city in a penal sum of not
less than $5,000, conditioned that the applicant shall abide by and comply with
all of the provisions of this chapter and shall save and keep harmless the city
against any claims and demands of any nature whatsoever that may be made
against it rising out of the operations of the applicant, and that the
permittee will in all respects comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All bonds shall be signed by surety by a bonding or indemnity company
authorized to do business in the state and shall be approved by the Mayor or
City Clerk. All bonds shall be kept in full force and effect during the
operations of the permittee and certificates showing that the insurance is in
effect shall be kept on file with the City Clerk.
   (C)   All bonds required by this or any other section of this chapter shall
be kept constantly in force by the party required to furnish the same. A
failure so to do shall be ground for suspension of the rights under this
chapter of the person under obligation to furnish the same, until the bond
requirements are met by the person.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.050) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.06 FEES.
   All applicants for a permit to drill a well shall pay to the City Clerk at
the time of making the application the sum of $100, of which amount the sum of
$75 shall be refunded if the application is not granted. In addition to the
foregoing, all applicants shall pay upon the receipt of a permit to drill $100
to the City Clerk as an annual service charge, and shall every 12 months
thereafter pay a similar sum to the City Clerk for the annual service charge.
All applicants for permits to lay a pipe line longitudinally along any street
or alley shall pay at the time of making the application a fee of $0.25 per
rod, but in no event less than $10 of which amount 75% shall be refunded if the
application is not granted.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.060) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.07 STANDARDS OF MATERIALS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   All equipment and materials used in the drilling of wells, or in equipping
or operating the same, and all tanks, pipe lines, valves and fittings shall be
of standard design and quality such as are in common use by the petroleum
industry, and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with standard
practices in the industry. No wooden derricks shall be used. Suitable hand fire
extinguishers in good working order shall be provided and kept in each derrick
while a well is being drilled.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.070) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.08 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS.
   All drilling operations, equipping of wells, producing and marketing of oil
and gas, plugging of wells and all material used and work done in connection
with exploring for, producing and marketing petroleum products shall be in
conformity with state and federal laws pertaining thereto, and if any of the
provisions of this chapter conflict with state and federal law, this chapter
shall be ineffective to that extent.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.080) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.09 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to drill any oil or gas well within
any of the streets or alleys of the city or to block or encumber or close up
any street or alley in any drilling or production operation, or lay pipe lines,
except pursuant to a special permit by order of the Mayor or City Clerk and
then only temporarily.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.090) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No excavation shall be made in any street or alley or in any public street,
or any water pipe, water main, fire hydrant, storm or sanitary sewer, or street
lighting equipment be interfered with in any manner, except by permit of the
Council or the head of the department of the city having the same under his or
her jurisdiction. All excavations that may be made shall be filled by the
person making the same and all sidewalks and street paving, water pipe, water
main, fire hydrants or sanitary sewers or street lighting equipment that may be
interfered with shall be by the person so interfering therewith restored to
their former condition or to the altered condition as may be directed by the
Council or by the head of the department having jurisdiction over the same.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.100) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 TANKS OR OTHER FACILITIES FOR THE STORAGE OF OIL PIPE LINES.
   No tanks or other facilities for the storage of oil produced from any well
or wells within the city shall be kept, erected or maintained within the
business or closely built by residential sections of the city, having a
capacity in excess of 500 barrels; and no wooden tanks for those purposes shall
be erected or maintained within the city. All pipe lines along or across
streets or alleys shall be buried.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.110) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 INTERPRETATION.
   Neither this chapter, nor any permit issued hereunder, shall be interpreted
to grant any right or license to the permittee to enter upon or occupy in any
respect, in drilling or production operations any land, except upon the written
consent of the owner; nor shall it limit or prevent the free right of any
property owner to contract for the amount of royalty to be paid with respect to
his or her own real estate for production from any well on the owner’s real
estate, or for damage, rights or privileges, with respect thereto, all subject
however, to regulations as set forth in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.120) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.13 DISPOSAL OF OIL WASTE AND PROCEDURE OF STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   In operating by virtue of any permit issued under this chapter, all water,
salt water, oil, gas or waste produced or arising from the operations shall be
piped or otherwise conveyed or removed from the corporate limits of the city
except in connection with the ordinary use of a slush pit. No waste sludge or
water shall be permitted to empty into any sanitary sewer or storm sewer. All
excavations in, or use of the streets or alleys under these operations, shall
be under the direction of the Department of Streets and Alleys of the city, and
shall be done without unnecessary obstruction of the streets and without cost
or expense to the city. All gas escaping from tank vents, holes or produced in
operation hereunder in any way shall be burned from a pipe not less than 20
feet high from ground level or piped back into the line.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.130) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.14 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   Within 30 days after any oil or gas well within the limits of the city shall
have been completed for production of oil or gas, or within 30 days after the
same shall have been completed in cases where the same is abandoned for the
reason that a dry hole is found, the permittee shall drain and remove sludge
and drilling mud as provided herein and fill the slush pit with dirt and level
off the surface, and the permittee shall not unnecessarily allow any
accumulation of sludge, oil, water or salt water or other offensive or
dangerous substances to accumulate, and shall so far as is reasonably possible
keep his or her premises in a sanitary and sightly condition.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.140) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.15 INSPECTION.
   Any officer, police officer or employee of the city designated for that
purpose shall have the right and privilege at any time to enter upon the
premises covered by any permit issued under this chapter, for the purpose of
making inspections to determine if the requirements of this chapter are being
complied with, or the requirements of any other ordinance of the city relating
to the health and safety of persons and property within the city.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.150) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.16 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any part or section of this chapter, or any regulation or requirement
herein shall be held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
invalidity shall not affect the validity of any other part or section, or other
regulation or requirement herein.
(1986 Code, § 11.24.170) (Ord. 511, passed 8-19-1941)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 118: GAMBLING; RAFFLES
Section
   
118.01   License
   
118.02   No fee
   
118.03   Limitation on chances and prizes
   
118.04   Compliance with state law
   
118.05   Duration of license
§ 118.01 LICENSE.
   The city will issue licenses to religious, charitable, labor, business,
fraternal; educational, or veterans’ organizations to operate raffles, as long
as the raffles are operated consistent with this chapter and with the Illinois
Raffles Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.).
(Ord. 13-0723-56, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 118.02 NO FEE.
   There will be no fee to obtain a license to operate a raffle in the city.
(Ord. 13-0723-56, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 118.03 LIMITATION ON CHANCES AND PRIZES.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
licensee in a single raffle and the maximum retail value of each prize awarded
by license in a single raffle shall net exceed $25,000.
   (B)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $100.
   (C)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 180 consecutive days.
(Ord. 13-0723-56, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 118.04 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Each licensee who obtains a license from the city to operate a raffle must
comply with all terms, conditions, and requirements of the Illinois Raffles Act
(ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.).
(Ord. 13-0723-56, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 118.05 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued by the city to operate raffles shall be good for 12
months from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 13-0723-56, passed 7-23-2013)
CHAPTER 119: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   License required; for profit vendors only
   
119.03   Fees; for profit vendors only
   
119.04   Manner of operation
   
119.05   Public health standards
   
119.06   Indemnification and insurance
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD TRUCK. Any self-contained motorized vehicle, or self-contained enclosed
trailer with valid license plates and registration, from which prepared food
for immediate consumption is served.
   FOOD TRUCK VENDOR. A person engaged in the business of selling food or
nonalcoholic beverages from a self-contained motorized vehicle or a self-
contained enclosed trailer with valid license plates and registration. A FOOD
TRUCK VENDOR does not include an ice cream truck operator.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FOR PROFIT VENDORS ONLY.
   No food truck vendor or mobile food cart operator selling food and/or drink
for a profit, may operate in the city without first securing a license. No
other person or entity shall set up a stand or table selling food and/or drink
for a profit in the city without first securing a license. Such license shall
be a daily license and must be issued each time prior to selling food and/or
drink for a profit. Such license shall be issued in accordance with
Chapter 110 of this Code of Ordinances. If one person or company operates more
than one food truck, mobile food cart, table or stand in the city, each such
food truck, mobile food cart, table or stand shall require a separate license.
A license, under this section, shall not be required for any religious,
charitable, fraternal, educational, veteran's organization or not-for-profit
group selling food and/or drinks as part of a fund-raising event.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.03 FEES; FOR PROFIT VENDORS ONLY.
   The fee charged for food truck vendors, mobile food cart vendors and any
other person or entity that desires to set up a stand or table selling food
and/or drink for a profit in the city shall be $25 per day. The fee shall be
paid in advance at the time application for a license is made with the City
Clerk. The license fee shall become a part of the corporate fund. This fee
shall cover the administration charges and shall cover the amount of
electricity used from the city. A fee, under this section, shall not be
required for any religious, charitable, fraternal, educational, veteran's
organization or not-for-profit group selling food and/or drinks as part of a
fund-raising event.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.04 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Waste disposal. Food truck vendors, mobile food cart vendors and any
other person or entity that sets up a stand or table selling food and/or drinks
for a profit in the city shall provide for the sanitary collection of all
refuse, litter, and garbage generated by patrons using the service, and shall
remove all such waste materials from the location before the vehicle departs or
before the vendor otherwise leaves the location. Food truck vendors, mobile
food cart vendors and any other person or entity that sets up a stand or table
selling food and/or drink for a profit in the city shall not dispose of any
refuse, litter, garbage, grease or liquid in any city-owned garbage can.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Food truck vendors, mobile food cart vendors and
any other person or entity that sets up a stand or table selling food and/or
drinks for a profit in the city shall only be operated between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except during Fairfield Fall Fun Fest or other special
event designated by the City Council.
   (C)   Vehicle appearance and maintenance. Food trucks shall be kept in good
mechanical and structural condition. Vehicles and carts shall have a clean
exterior and interior and shall be equipped with signs to alert traffic to
proceed with caution past the truck or cart while it is serving customers. Each
vehicle shall have the company name affixed to it in a professional,
workmanlike manner. Generators and fuel tanks shall be affixed to the vehicle
and shall not be placed on the ground.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.05 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   No food, food products, or beverages for public consumption shall be kept,
offered for sale, transported, or handled except in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the State of Illinois and the Wayne County Health
Department. If the Wayne County Health Department or the State of Illinois
suspends or revokes their respective permits and/or licenses, the license
issued hereunder shall be revoked until such time as the State of Illinois or
Wayne County permit and/or license is reinstated.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.06 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   Each applicant for a license to be issued hereunder (the "applicant"), shall
submit with their application a signed statement that the applicant shall hold
harmless the city and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city,
its officers and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to
persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of
the license. If the applicant is applying for a corporation or a limited
liability company, then a statement shall be submitted with the application
that the corporation or limited liability company shall hold the city and its
officers and employees harmless and shall indemnify the city, its officers and
employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may
be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of the license. The
applicant shall furnish a certificate of insurance showing that it maintains
such public liability, food products liability, and property damage insurance
as will protect the applicant, property owners and the city from all claims for
damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which may arise from the
operations under the permit or in connection therewith. Such insurance shall
provide coverage of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. The policy shall
further provide that it may not be cancelled except upon a 30-day written
notice served upon the City Clerk. The applicant and any employee or agent that
will be operating a mobile food truck shall also submit proof of automobile
liability insurance coverage and proof that any and all operators of such
mobile food truck has a valid driver's license. A license issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not
maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall result in the revocation of the license
issued hereunder, in the manner as set forth under §
110.12 of this Code of Ordinances. In addition, there shall be imposed a
minimum fine of $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 19-0709-176, passed 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 120: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
120.01   Applicability of provisions
   
120.02   Definitions
   
120.03   License
   
120.04   License application requirements
   
120.05   Application filing; renewals
   
120.06   License fees
   
120.07   License revocation or suspension
   
120.08   Limitation on number of video gaming terminals on premises
   
120.09   Prohibition
   
120.10   Exceptions
   
120.11   Licensed establishments
   
120.12   Seizure of unauthorized gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 120.01 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this Code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
   BOARD. The Illinois Gaming Board.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. As defined in Section 18b-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-101.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any business licensed by the State of Illinois to
have or operate a video gaming device in the city, including any licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those terms are
defined in the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/5.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility:
      (1)   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
      (2)   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
      (3)   That sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month; and
      (4)   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
   The requirement of item (3) of this definition may be met by showing that
estimated future sales or past sales average at least 10,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility located within three
road miles from a freeway interchange, as measured in accordance with the
Department of Transportation’s rules regarding criteria for the installation of
business signs:
      (1)   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
      (2)   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
      (3)   That sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month; and
      (4)   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
   The requirement of item (3) of this definition may be met by showing that
estimated future sales or past sales average at least 50,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED VETERAN'S ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veteran's
organization that derives its charter from a national veteran's organization
regularly meets.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized
by the Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 20-0114-194, passed 1-14-2020; Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions, see ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5
§ 120.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the city without first
having obtained a video gaming license from the city. The license provided for
in this chapter shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals at
the specified establishment.
   (B)   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the city,
nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video gaming
license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue to be
met:
      (1)   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
State of Illinois permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
      (2)   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the
city or State of Illinois;
      (3)   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in §
120.04 and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling offense, or crime of
moral turpitude; and
      (4)   The establishment is located outside of a residential zoning
district.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses. In the
event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any action taken by the
Mayor, an appeal may be made directly to the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after written notice of the action from which an appeal is
made.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.04 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The license applicant shall provide the following information to the city on
a form provided by the city:
   (A)   The legal name of the establishment;
   (B)   The business name of the establishment;
   (C)   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   (D)   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   (E)   A floor plan, detailing the overall layout of the establishment,
including the location and count of dining seating, the location and count of
video gaming terminals and seating for said terminals, and other significant
features of the establishment, including exit locations, restrooms and other
equipment. A high-resolution paper printed copy of the floor plan shall be
submitted at the time of application;
   (F)   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place;
   (G)   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   (H)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   (I)   A phone number for the establishment;
   (J)   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   (K)   The name and address of every person owning more than a 5% share of
the establishment;
   (L)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   (M)   A copy of the establishment's State of Illinois video gaming license;
   (N)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, a copy of the establishment's state certificate of good standing;
   (O)   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises;
   (P)   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee
or bill due to the city or State of Illinois;
   (Q)   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance;
   (R)   A statement that no manager or owner with more than 5% interest in the
establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling offense or a
crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment cannot provide
such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of rehabilitation
from the Mayor indicating that the individual who would disqualify the
establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has been rehabilitated
and is no longer a threat to violate the law. The City Mayor may consider the
nature of the offense, the length of time since the offense, the length of time
since release from custody and other factors to determine if the individual has
been rehabilitated such that he or she is no longer likely to commit another
offense;
   (S)   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior 12-month period, proof of
the length of time the existing business has been operational and proof of
ownership verifying the applicant's ownership rights; and
   (T)   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.05 APPLICATION FILING; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Applications shall be processed by the City Clerk on a first come,
first served basis. Every application shall be date and time stamped upon
filing. An application received in the mail shall be considered filed on the
date and time it is opened by the City Clerk's department.
   (B)   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
§
120.04. Renewal applications shall be due on or before April 30 of each year
unless that day falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be
received by the Clerk on the following business day.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be $250 per
terminal annually, except that the fee shall be $100 per terminal for a
licensed fraternal establishment and for a licensed veteran establishment. The
cost of this fee shall be shared equally between the terminal operator and the
applicable licensed establishment.
   (B)   The application fee is not subject to reimbursement or refund upon
denial of a license.
   (C)   Said fees are not subject to proration or refund and are due prior to
issuance of the license.
   (D)   All licenses required by this division shall be prominently displayed
next to the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022; Ord. 22-0426-284, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 120.07 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this division
within five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming terminal.
After a hearing presided over by the Mayor, the Mayor may order the revocation
of the license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and the license
shall thereupon be terminated. The licensee may appeal the revocation as
prescribed in §
120.03(C).
   (B)   In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or
registration under this section, such person shall not be issued any license
provided for in this chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or
any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.08 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than six video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any one
location, other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
   (B)   There shall be no more than ten video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any licensed
large truck stop establishment.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.09 PROHIBITION.
   Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the city, or for any person or
entity which owns, occupies or controls an establishment within the city to
knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.11 LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of the
city that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this section
shall be subject to having his/her/its license immediately revoked for a period
of 60 days. Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits
of the city that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
chapter a second time shall have his/her/its license permanently revoked and,
thereafter, barred from obtaining any business, liquor or food license within
the city.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 120.12 SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Any gambling device which is not authorized by this chapter shall be
subject to immediate seizure and confiscation by the city. Any money or other
thing of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this
chapter shall be seized and forfeited as contraband.
   (B)   Disposition of such gambling devices and funds seized or confiscated
shall be made in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 22-0111-275, passed 1-11-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
132.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Missiles
   
130.02   Defacing public and private property
   
130.03   Posting bills
   
130.04   “Soaping” windows of property
   
130.05   Tearing down postings
Trespasses
   
130.20   Prohibited
   
130.21   Specifically enumerated; suppression
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street,
alley or other public place.
(1986 Code, § 5.08.010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DEFACING PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall mark, injure, destroy or deface or aid in injuring,
destroying or defacing in the city any public or private property; or mar,
injure, destroy or deface, or cause to be marred, destroyed, injured or defaced
any bridge, fence, tree, street sign, awning, lamppost, electric light post or
apparatus, or any other property not belonging to the person so offending,
whether public or private.
(1986 Code, § 5.08.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post any bills
or advertisements on any public property without the authority of the city; and
it shall be unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any property without
the written consent of the owner thereof.
(1986 Code, § 5.08.030) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 “SOAPING” WINDOWS OF PROPERTY.
   Any person found guilty of applying, smearing or using any substance
including, but not limited to, soap, tallow or chalk, upon the windows or glass
of any property belonging to another, without the consent of the owner or
possessor of the property, shall be fined.
(1986 Code, § 5.08.040) (Ord. 612, passed 3-16-1948) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 TEARING DOWN POSTINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to tear down any poster, bill or notice, or
advertisement posted up at any place in the city, not contrary to this code.
(1986 Code, § 5.08.050) (Ord. 14, passed 8-14-1922) Penalty, see §
130.99
TRESPASSES
§ 130.20 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(1986 Code, § 5.10.010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
130.20 hereof, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of §
130.20 and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this subchapter,
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft
after being requested to leave by the person having the right.
(1986 Code, § 5.10.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Drinking intoxicating liquor in public
   
131.02   Sunday closing
   
131.03   Restrictions on keeping dance hall or music making device situated or
connected with the operation of any dance hall, eating house or other similar
place or business
   
131.04   Nude, semi-nude, and exotic dancers prohibited
   
131.05   Fighting
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DRINKING INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any intoxicating liquor in any
park, street, alley, cemetery, public grounds or to take any keg, jug or other
vessel or package containing intoxicating liquor into any public park, cemetery
or other public grounds for the purpose of drinking the contents or any part
thereof of any keg, jug, can or other vessel or package. This prohibition shall
not apply to drinking intoxicating liquor outdoors at a table in an alley or
any public ground as a patron of a restaurant that has a Class C liquor
license. This prohibition shall not apply to consumption of intoxicating liquor
on the premises of the golf course as a patron of the golf course.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.030) (Ord. 19-0709-178, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 SUNDAY CLOSING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or permit the operation of any exhibition
and carnival on Sunday or of any billiards, pool, bagatelle, pigeonhole hall on
Sunday between 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.040) (Ord. 964, passed 9-21-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 RESTRICTIONS ON KEEPING DANCE HALL OR MUSIC MAKING DEVICE SITUATED OR
CONNECTED WITH THE OPERATION OF ANY DANCE HALL, EATING HOUSE OR OTHER SIMILAR
PLACE OR BUSINESS.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall operate or permit to be
operated, any dance hall or any music making device situated in, or connected
with, the operation of any dance hall, eating house or other similar place of
business within 200 feet of any residence within the city limits after the hour
of 10:30 p.m., from Monday to Friday inclusive, nor shall the same be operated
after the hour of 12:00 a.m. on Saturday, nor shall the same be operated at any
time on Sunday, save between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. when the
playing of music is expressly allowed.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.050) (Ord. 503, passed 6-3-1941) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 NUDE, SEMI-NUDE, AND EXOTIC DANCERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, or any other entity to operate any kind of business
which provides as a form of entertainment either gratuitously or at cost, nude,
semi-nude, or exotic dancers.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
or any other entity found to have violated this section shall be subject to an
immediate cease and desist order from a presiding judge in the Wayne County,
Illinois Circuit Court.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
or any other entity found to have violated this section shall be liable to the
city for all attorney’s fees, court costs and litigation expenses incurred by
reason of the violation.
(Ord. 13-0709-53, passed 7-9-2013) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 FIGHTING.
   No person shall with another person or with others, whether by agreement or
otherwise, fight within the city if the same causes a breach of the peace. This
section shall not apply to an athletic exhibition that has been licensed
pursuant to § 116.06 of the Code of Fairfield.
(Ord. 20-1208-241, passed 12-8-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall knowingly disturb the good order or the peace and quiet of
the city by loud and tumultuous noise. This section shall not apply to events
that have been approved by the City Council, Mayor or the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 20-1208-241, passed 12-8-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of §
131.01 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.030)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
131.02 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs
or continues.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.040)
   (C)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 or not more than $750
for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(1986 Code, § 5.02.050)
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
or any other entity found to have violated §
131.04 may be fined $750 for each day the violation exists.
   (E)   Any person violating §
131.05 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
   (F)   Any person violating §
131.06 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
(Ord. 503, passed 6-3-1941; Ord. 964, passed 9-21-1971; Ord. 13-0709-53, passed
7-9-2013; Ord. 20-1208-241, passed 12-8-2020)
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Discharge of weapons
   
132.02   Hunting, shooting or killing game in city parks
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or airgun, BB gun or any toy
gun, projecting lead or any missiles excepting in a regularly established
shooting gallery, and excepting when hunters use shotguns to shoot wild geese
at the Fairfield County Club golf course after being authorized to do so by the
Mayor of the city.
(1986 Code, § 5.12.020) (Ord. 19-0122-170, passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 HUNTING, SHOOTING OR KILLING GAME IN CITY PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to hunt, shoot or kill any game in the city parks
of the city with any weapon, except that hunters may use shotguns to shoot wild
geese at the Fairfield Country Club golf course after being authorized to do so
by the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby given the authority to authorize hunters to use a
shotgun to kill wild geese at the Fairfield Country Club golf course, when in
the Mayor's discretion, the wild geese are causing a nuisance to the Fairfield
Country Club golf course, by damaging property and causing a potential risk to
human health by leaving excessive fecal matter accumulations on the Fairfield
Country Club golf course and by damaging the turf at the Fairfield Country Club
golf course, including upon the fairway and putting greens at the Fairfield
Country Club golf course. When making such an authorization to hunt, the Mayor
shall make this indication known on a form entitled, Authorization to Eliminate
Nuisance Wildlife, a copy of such proposed form is attached to Ordinance 19-
0122-170 as Exhibit 1 and incorporated by reference as it set forth in full
herein. The Mayor shall only make such an authorization if he is shown
sufficient and satisfactory proof that the proposed hunter possesses a
necessary and valid Illinois Department of Natural Resources Hunting License,
and other credentials required to shoot and possess wild geese in the State of
Illinois for the proposed time period in the authorization. The Mayor and City
Clerk are hereby authorized respectively to execute and attest the
Authorization to Eliminate Nuisance Wildlife in each and every instance upon
which it may become necessary, in the discretion of the Mayor, to do so in the
future.
(1986 Code, § 5.12.030) (Ord. 19-0122-170, passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §
132.01 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $250.
(1986 Code, § 5.12.020)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
132.02 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 5.12.030)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
152.   MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
Numbering of Buildings and Lots
   
150.01   Street numbers required
   
150.02   Display of street numbers
   
150.03   Mayor with Council approval to assign numbers
   
150.04   Numbering to begin at base line
   
150.05   Numbering; when effective
   
150.06   Failure to display street number
   
150.07   Right to refuse to connect or disconnect city utilities
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.20   Definition
   
150.21   Prohibition
   
150.22   Abatement actions
   
150.23   Lien
   
150.24   Fire-damaged building
   
150.25   Appeals
Construction, Placement and Maintenance of Fences
   
150.35   Definition
   
150.36   Division fence permitted; disputes
   
150.37   Permit required
   
150.38   Fence agreement
   
150.39   Height restriction
   
150.40   General regulations
   
150.41   Prohibited materials
   
150.42   Security around hazardous equipment or installations
   
150.43   Violations
Building and Construction Permit Fees
   
150.55   Residential building permit fees
   
150.56   Commercial building permit fees
   
150.57   Demolition fees
   
150.58   Violations; enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND LOTS
§ 150.01 STREET NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   Each building, whether residence or business, and lot within the city shall
have a street number with reference to the street on which the building and lot
fronts. However, street numbers shall not be required for accessory structures
of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the use of the main
building on its lot.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.010) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
§ 150.02 DISPLAY OF STREET NUMBERS.
   The owner or occupant of each building within the city limits shall display
the street number of the building in numerals clearly visible from the street
on which the building fronts. The numerals shall be at least three inches in
height and shall be placed on the front of each building, or on the front curb,
or on a porch, pole or other sign in the front of the building provided that
the numerals are clearly visible from the street. The owner or occupant of an
unimproved lot shall not be required to display the street number of the lot.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.020) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
§ 150.03 MAYOR WITH COUNCIL APPROVAL TO ASSIGN NUMBERS.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to assign initial street numbers to, or
change street numbers of, buildings and lots within the city limits of the
city, with the approval of the City Council, upon request from any interested
person or upon the Mayor’s own initiative.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.030) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
§ 150.04 NUMBERING TO BEGIN AT BASE LINE.
   (A)   Main Street shall be the base line for the numbering of buildings and
lots on streets running north and south, while First Street shall be the base
line for numbering of buildings and lots on streets running east and west.
   (B)   Building and lot numbering shall begin at the base line with the
number 101. Each lot shall have a street number whether or not improved. Block
numbers shall be assigned with reference to streets or to block size common in
subdivisions within the city so that a uniform grid system of blocks within the
city may be established and maintained.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.040) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
§ 150.05 NUMBERING; WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   The initial numbering of a building or lot within the city or the change
thereof shall not be effective until 30 days after written notice of the
initial numbering or change in numbering shall be given to the County Clerk, as
the local election authority, and to the city post office, by certified or
registered mail. The City Clerk shall mail the notice as provided above within
ten days of approval by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.050) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
§ 150.06 FAILURE TO DISPLAY STREET NUMBER.
   The failure of any owner or occupant of a building within the city to
display the street number of the building or lot in compliance with this
subchapter shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter. After investigation,
the Chief of Police or his or her designate may determine a violation of the
minimum requirements of this subchapter exists and shall notify the owner or
occupant in writing of the violation.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.060) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 RIGHT TO REFUSE TO CONNECT OR DISCONNECT CITY UTILITIES.
   The city shall have the right to connect or to disconnect city utilities to
any building or lot within the city which does not display its street number in
compliance with this subchapter in the same manner as if the owner’s or
occupant’s utility account with the city had remained unpaid for a period of 20
days after the utility bill is rendered and mailed.
(1986 Code, § 22.14.070) (Ord. 1436, passed - -1995)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants or those
of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially susceptible to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of the structure;
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure, which
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of the structure; and
      (5)   Any building that has remained unoccupied for a period of two years
and has deteriorated to the point that it is no longer fit to be occupied as a
residence or place of business without expenditures of over 50% of the value of
the building and because of its condition or appearance is causing depreciation
in value of adjacent properties.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.010) (Ord. 1248, passed - -1984)
§ 150.21 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building
in the city; and it is unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody of
any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition,
or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains in
a dangerous condition.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.020) (Ord. 1248, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 ABATEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor and the City Council are of the opinion that any
building or structure in the city is a dangerous building, they shall direct
the City Clerk to cause written notice to be served upon the owner and the
occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail with return receipt requested or by
personal service. The notice shall state that the building has been declared to
be in a dangerous condition and that the dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it and
removing the debris, and that the condition must be remedied at once. Notice
may be in the following form:
 
To                                           (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises described as:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
You are hereby notified that                                                                               (describe building) on the premises above-mentioned has been declared to be a nuisance and a dangerous building. The causes of this decisions are                                                                            (insert facts as to the dangerous
condition).You are to remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately or the city will proceed to do so.
 
   (B)   If the person receiving notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination within 30 days from the time this notice is
served upon the person by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the City Council may proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
dangerous building and shall be entitled to recover the cost of remedying the
condition from the owner of the property and shall have a lien on the property
therefor. The liens shall be perfected by the City Council causing a claim of
lien to be filed in the office of the County Recorder setting forth the amount
of the lien.
   (C)   If the city, after making diligent search and inquiry, cannot
ascertain the owner of a dangerous building and there is not an occupant of the
dangerous building, the notice provided in this section may be posted on the
dangerous building and the posting of the notice shall be sufficient to satisfy
the notice requirements of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.030) (Ord. 1248, passed - -1984)
§ 150.23 LIEN.
   (A)   The cost of demolition or repair incurred by the city is recoverable
from the owner or owners of the real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien
is superior to all prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes;
provided that, within 60 days after the repair or demolition, the city shall
file notice of lien of the cost and expense incurred in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   The description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and
      (3)   The day or dates when the cost and expense is incurred by the city.
   (C)   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in the property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city and a release may be filed of record as in the case of
filing notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by proceedings to enforce as in
the case of mortgages or mechanic’s liens. Suit to foreclose this lien must be
commenced within three years after the day of filing notice of lien.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.040)
§ 150.24 FIRE-DAMAGED BUILDING.
   (A)   Any building or structure which has or may be damaged by fire, to the
extent of 50% of its value shall be torn down and removed, or rebuilt. Whenever
the Chief of Police of the city shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the city has been so damaged, he or she shall file a written
statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall thereupon
cause written notice to be served upon the owners thereof, and upon the
lienholders of record, by certified mail or by personal service.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint three persons to determine whether
or not the building or structure has been damaged to the extend of 50% of its
value. The notice shall state that the building or structure has been declared
to be damaged to the extent of 50% of its value. The notice shall state that
the building or structure has been declared to be damaged to the extent of 50%
of its value and that a board of three persons has been appointed to determine
whether or not this finding is correct. The notice shall be in the following
terms:
 

To                                           (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises described as:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
You are hereby notified that the premises above-mentioned have been determined to be damaged by fire to the extent of 50% of its value after inspection by the Chief of Police and that a board of three persons has been appointed to verify this finding.
You have the right to protest the determination by the Chief of Police that the building has been damaged by fire to the extent of 50% of its value and to present your complaint by appearing before the board of three persons at the City Hall, 109 Northeast Second Street, Fairfield, Illinois on                              at                                                    , at which day and time it will
determine whether or not this finding is correct.
If this finding is upheld by the board, you must tear down and remove the building, or rebuild it within 90 days after this finding is verified by the board.
 
   (C)   Whereby upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner
or owners of any building including the lienholders of record is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the real
estate was last assessed for taxes is sufficient notice under this section.
   (D)   If this finding is upheld by the board of three persons and it
determines that the building has been damaged by fire to the extent of 50% of
its value, the owner or owners shall tear down and remove or rebuild the
building within 90 days after the finding of the board, and the owner or owners
shall not occupy or permit the occupancy of the building after the finding
until it is so remodeled.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.050)
§ 150.25 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person receiving the notice provided for in §
150.22 may appeal the decision contained in the notice by filing a written
request for hearing with the City Clerk within 30 days from service of the
notice.
   (B)   A hearing on the request will be held at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council which would be held not more than two weeks after
the receipt of the request for appeal.
   (C)   At the hearing, the owner or occupant may present the evidence to the
City Council as desired and any other interested party may present evidence as
desired.
   (D)   After hearing all the evidence, the City Council shall make a
determination as to whether or not the building or structure is dangerous and
if the City Council finds that the building or structure is dangerous, adopt a
resolution directing the owner or occupant to remedy the situation within 30
days from the date of the resolution.
(1986 Code, § 5.16.060) (Ord. 1248, passed - -1984)
CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF FENCES
§ 150.35 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, the term DIVISION FENCE means a fence marking
the boundary between adjoining parcels of land.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.36 DIVISION FENCE PERMITTED; DISPUTES.
   (A)   Division Fences are permitted within the City of Fairfield, Illinois
pursuant to the following regulations as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   When two or more persons have lands adjoining, each of them may make
and maintain a just proportion of the division fence between them.
   (C)   If any person neglects to repair or rebuild a division fence, or
portion thereof, on complaint by the party aggrieved to the City Council, and
after giving due notice to each party, the City Council or their designee,
shall examine such fence, and if they deem the same to be insufficient, they
shall so notify the delinquent party, and direct them to repair or rebuild the
same within such time as the City Council deems appropriate; or, at the option
of the aggrieved party, such determination may be ascertained in an action
brought by them before any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   If a dispute arises between the owners of the adjoining lands
concerning the proportion of fence to be made or maintained by either of them,
such dispute may be settled by the City Council and in such cases it shall be
the duty of the City Council or their designee to distinctly mark and define
the proportion of the fence to be made or maintained by each; or at the option
of the aggrieved party, such determination may be ascertained in an action
brought by them before any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.37 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A fence may not be constructed within the city limits without first
having obtained a permit from the city. The application fee for a permit to
construct a fence shall be $50.Anyone desiring to construct a fence within the
city shall make an application, and pay the application fee, to the City
Building and Zoning Officer. Once issued, the permit shall run with the land
and remain valid until the property changes use or the use is abandoned and
non-operational for a period of 12 consecutive months.
   (B)   The application for a fence permit shall include but not be limited
to, the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall contain a statement that the applicant affirms that they are
the owner of the property, or (in cases of joint ownership) shall contain a
statement that the applicant is a co-owner or joint owner of the property and
has the consent of the other co-owner or joint owner to construct a fence on
the proposed property.
      (2)   Shall attest that no part of the fence will encroach upon any
portion of the adjoining property and is completely located upon the
applicant's property, unless a permit is sought to build a division fence, in
which case the application will be signed by both property owners.
      (3)   In cases of a division fence, shall provide detailed drawings of
the proposed fence including property lines and distance from property lines.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.38 FENCE AGREEMENT.
   Any written fence agreement by the parties shall be submitted to the City
Building and Zoning Office. It is not a prerequisite to obtaining a permit that
a written fence agreement of the parties be made. However in the event that
there is a written fence agreement, the parties must submit the same to the
City Building and Zoning Officer before a permit is issued. It shall be the
responsibility of the parties to a fence agreement, not the City of Fairfield,
to record any written fence agreement with the Wayne County Clerk & Recorder's
Office, to ensure that the provisions concerning the written fence agreement
permanently run with the land.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.39 HEIGHT RESTRICTION.
   No fence shall be constructed in excess of six feet in height.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.40 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements shall apply to all fences:
   (A)   All fences shall be durable, weather resistant, rust proof, and easily
maintained. Acceptable materials include: wrought iron, plastic, wood; brick,
stone, stucco, wire and other materials with a similar look.
   (B)   All fences shall be kept in good condition, plumb, and true, and
without damage.
   (C)   Fence setback requirements are as follows: The minimum requirements
section for a side yard under §§
154.075,
154.076,
154.077,
154.0771,
154.078,
154.079, and
154.080 of the Code of Fairfield, do not apply to fences placed, for so long as
the other requirements of this subchapter are met. The set back restrictions
for fences placed in conformity with this subchapter are a maximum set back
restriction of four feet total (two feet per side) for a side yard. All other
set back requirements under
Chapter 154 of the Code of Fairfield remain in full force and effect.
   (D)   No fence shall be erected or maintained in any public right-of-way,
except those fences erected for the purpose of ensuring the public safety by a
public body having proper authority.
   (E)   In no event shall any wall, fence, or other structure or planting be
placed or maintained in a location relative to a public or private street,
alley, driveway or other means of ingress or egress such that the sight of
oncoming vehicular or pedestrian traffic is impaired for users of such means of
ingress and egress in accordance with regulations contained in the Code of
Ordinances of Fairfield.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.41 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to place, build or erect
a fence, railing or guard of any kind constructed of barbed wire, razor tape,
iron spikes, or other sharp-pointed material provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to the Wayne County Jail and shall not prohibit the use
of such material when:
   (A)   Located in commercial or industrial zoning districts, or for
government use;
   (B)   Used to provide security for a bona-fide business operation;
   (C)   Approved by the City Building and Zoning Officer, after a review of
the documentation indicating the need for security and bona-fide operation of a
business; and
   (D)   Such barbed wire, razor tape, iron spikes, or other sharp-pointed
material is securely affixed to the top of a soundly constructed fence or
structural barrier.
   (E)   A violation of this section is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.42 SECURITY AROUND HAZARDOUS EQUIPMENT OR INSTALLATIONS.
   Regardless of the zoning district, barbed wire, razor tape, iron spikes, or
other sharp-pointed material may be used for security around hazardous
equipment or installations, such as, but not limited to, high voltage
equipment, electrical transformer or volatile fuel installation.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
§ 150.43 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city may, in addition to any other remedies, initiate an
appropriate action in the Circuit Court to prevent the unlawful installation,
establishment, or maintenance of a fence, which is not in compliance with this
subchapter or to restrain, correct or abate a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this subchapter shall pay a fine as
set forth in §
150.99 for each violation.
(Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11–8-2022)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEES
§ 150.55 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Commencing January 1, 2023, residential building permit fees shall be
imposed on the following construction projects and the fees for such projects
shall be as follows:
Addition of a storage building $50.00
Addition of a storage building $50.00
Fences                         50.00
Roof                           50.00
Decks & Patios                 50.00
Pools                          50.00
Mobile Home placement/swap     100.00
New Construction                
   Attached Garage          100.00
   Residence                200.00
Portable Cargo Container       100.00
 
(Ord. 22-1108-318, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 150.56 COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Commencing January 1, 2023, commercial building permit fees shall be imposed
on the following construction projects and the fees for such projects shall be
as follows:
 
New Construction          $2.00 per $1,000.00 for the first $100,000.00 of
                          costs
                         $3.00 per $1,000.00 for the remainder of costs.
Signs                      
   Under 50 square feet$50.00
   Over 50 square feet $50.00 + $0.20 per square feet over 50 square feet
Portable Cargo Containers $100.00
 
(Ord. 22-1108-318, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 150.57 DEMOLITION FEES.
   Commencing January 1, 2023, demolition fees, to demolish either a commercial
or residential structure, shall be $50.00.
(Ord. 22-1108-318, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 150.58 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or any other entity, that violates any
of the provisions of this subchapter, or any amendments thereto, by not paying
any of the fees listed herein, shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and,
upon conviction (either in the Municipal Court of the City of Fairfield, or in
the Circuit Court of Wayne County, Illinois) shall be subject to a fine as set
forth in §
150.99. A separate offense is deemed committed on each day during or on which
the violation exists.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the city in any
manner authorized by law.
(Ord. 22-1108-318, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020; Ord. 22-1108-315, passed 11-8-2022; Ord.
22-1108-318, passed 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 151: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Office of Building Official
   
151.04   Duties of Building Official
   
151.05   Base flood elevation
   
151.06   Development permit
   
151.07   Use permits
   
151.08   Permit review
   
151.09   Development permit requirements
   
151.10   Consent for inspections
   
151.11   Revocation of permit
   
151.12   Completion of authorized work
   
151.13   Fees
   
151.14   Preventing increased damages
   
151.15   Protecting buildings
   
151.16   Other development requirements
   
151.17   Variances
   
151.18   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.19   Abrogations and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2 for the
following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing the flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.010) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.05.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or an
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, construction of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts;
         (e)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating or
other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   Storage of materials; or
         (g)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing roads; gardening, plowing and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading or
construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of riverine SFHAs required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the SFHAs of the city shall be according to the
best data available to the State Water Survey Floodplain Information
Repository.
   FPE or FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot at any given location in the SFHA.
   RIVERINE SFHA. Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch or any other identified channel. This term does not
include areas subject to flooding from lakes (except public bodies of water),
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the city that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the
city are generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map of the
city prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated April 17,
1985. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated county that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map prepared for
the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated January 9,
1981.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.020) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986; Ord. 1297, passed - -1987)
§ 151.03 OFFICE OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   There is created the Office of Building Official of the city, an
administrative office of the city. The office shall be filled by appointment of
a person educated, trained or experienced in construction practices or by
contract with another governmental inspection agency. The appointment or
contract shall be made by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.030) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following
duties:
   (A)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (C)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the State
Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources for all development
projects subject to §
151.14 of this chapter, and maintain a record of the authorization;
   (D)   Maintain a record of the “as built” elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all buildings subject to §
151.15 of this chapter;
   (E)   Maintain a record of the engineer’s certificate and the as built
floodproofed elevation of all buildings subject to §
151.15(D) of this chapter;
   (F)   Inspect all development projects to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program;
and
   (H)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request base flood
data, SFHA maps, copies of federal or state permit documents and as built
elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.040) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.05 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed in this section. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party may finance the detailed
engineering study needed to replace existing data with better data and submit
it to the State Water Survey and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the SFHAs delineated as an “A
Zone” on the flood hazard boundary map of the city shall be according to the
best data available to the State Water Survey Flood Plain Information
Repository. When no base flood elevation exists, the base flood elevation shall
be the 100-year flood depth calculated according to the formulas presented in
Depth and Frequency of Floods in Illinois published by the United States
Geological Survey, 1976.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.050) (Ord. 1297, passed - -1987)
§ 151.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; existing grade
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of lowest floor (including basement) of all buildings subject to the
requirements of §
151.15.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for development permit, the Building
Official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown to have been higher than the
base flood elevation as of April 17, 1985, is not located in the SFHA and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The Building
Official shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
April 17, 1985.
   (C)   The Building Official shall inform the applicant of any and all other
local, state and federal permits that may be required for this type of
development activity. The Building Official shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.060) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.07 USE PERMITS.
   It is unlawful to use or occupy any buildings or any development site or any
part thereof hereafter constructed in the SFHA without first making application
for obtaining a use permit from the Building Official. Requests for a use
permit shall be submitted to the Building Official upon completion of the work
authorized in the development permit issued for the project in question. If,
upon final inspection of a building or development site the Building Official
finds that the work has been performed in accordance with the approved
application and plans of the development permit, a use permit shall be issued.
If final inspection reveals otherwise, a use permit may not be issued until all
deficiencies are corrected.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.070) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 PERMIT REVIEW.
   The Building Official shall examine each application for a permit within
three days’ time after filing. If, after examination, it appears that the
proposed development or use of the site will be in compliance with this chapter
and other ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council applicable
thereto, the Building Official shall approve the application and issue the
appropriate permit as soon as practicable. If the examination reveals
otherwise, the application shall be rejected and the Building Official’s
findings shall be noted in a written report to be attached to the application.
A copy of the report shall be provided to the applicant upon request.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.080) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.09 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All work performed under a development permit shall conform to the
approved application and plans, and approved amendments thereto.
   (B)   A copy of the development permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises, in plain view from a public road, during the execution
of the work and until completion of the same.
   (C)   A development permit under which no work is commenced within six
months after issuance shall expire by limitation and a new development permit
shall be secured before work is started.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.090) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.10 CONSENT FOR INSPECTIONS.
   All work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by
the Building Official or a duly authorized representative. It is unlawful to
refuse to permit the Building Official, or his or her representative, to enter
the premises or structure at any reasonable time to make an inspection. It is
unlawful to interfere with or hinder the Building Official or his or her
representative when in the performance of his or her duties.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.100) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Official may revoke a permit in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit was based. The Building Official may revoke a permit
when work is performed contrary to the provisions of the application or plans
on which the permit is based. When a permit is revoked, the Building Official
shall inform the permittee in writing of the specific steps the permittee must
take in order to have the permit reissued. It is unlawful to continue any work
authorized by a permit after revocation of that permit and until the permit is
reissued or until a new permit is issued.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.110) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 COMPLETION OF AUTHORIZED WORK.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require changes in the plans, construction or
designated use of a building or other development project or portion thereof
which has been otherwise lawfully authorized, or the construction of which
shall have been actually begun and which entire building or development project
shall be completed within one year of the effective date of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.120) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.13 FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be as follows:
   (A)   For a use permit, no fee;
   (B)   For a development permit for clearing debris, demolishing buildings or
removing buildings out of the SFHA, no fee;
   (C)   For construction of a building valued at more than $100,000, $100;
   (D)   For construction or reconstruction of a building valued at less than
$100,000 and for any other development project that requires three site
inspections by the Building Official, $75; and
   (E)   For improvements made to an existing building, for installing a
manufactured home on a permanent site and for any other development project,
$50.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.130) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.14 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and safety.
   (A)   Within all riverine SFHAs. Within all riverine SFHAs, the following
standards shall apply.
      (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway (or in a riverine SFHA
where no floodway has been identified) shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required
from the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources,
issued pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 19, §§ 52 et seq.
      (2)   The following activities may be constructed without the individual
permit required in division (A)(1) above, in accordance with statewide permits
issued by the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources
provided the activities do not involve placement of fill, change of grade or
construction in the normal channel. These activities must still meet the other
requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   The construction of wells, septic tanks and underground utility
lines not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, un-walled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten feet in any dimension (e.g., animal shelters and
tool shed); and
         (f)   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than 20%, which are located on the
upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which do not extend
beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the flow of
floodwaters.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot for the affected hydraulic reach of
the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (B)   Public health standards in all SFHAs.
      (1)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless the materials are
stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of §
151.15(D).
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the FPE are watertight.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.140) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.15 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.14, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%, or the market value of the building by more
than 50%;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at or more than 50% of the market value of the building before the
damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning a
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Building Official shall maintain a record of compliance
with these building protection standards as required in §
151.14.
   (C)   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on
permanent landfill in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compaction.
      (2)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the FPE.
The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of the building
before sloping below the FPE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
   (D)   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
walls, stilts, piles or other foundation, provided:
         (a)   The walls have permanent openings no more than one foot above
grade; and
         (b)   The walls and floor are not subject to damage by hydrostatic
pressures associated with the base flood.
      (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
and
      (3)   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials resistant
to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing and air-conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the FPE. Water and sewer pipes, electrical
and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service
facilities may be located below the FPE.
   (E)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated at or above the FPE in accordance with division (C) above;
and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 1111, §§ 4401 through
4406.
   (F)   Only a nonresidential building may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the building
has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant utility
facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base
flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
impacts from debris and ice.
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.150) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.16 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks,
annexation agreements, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet the requirements of §§
151.14 and
151.15. Plats or plans for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
planned unit developments (PUDs) shall include a signed statement by a
registered professional engineer that the plat or plan accounts for changes in
the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the Plat Act (Ill. Rev. Stat.
Ch. 109, § 2).
   (B)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall include base flood elevation data and
floodway delineations. Where this information is not available from an existing
study filed with the State Water Survey, the applicant shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood elevation and the floodway delineation and
submitting it to the State Water Survey for review and approval as best
available regulatory data.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.160) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.17 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Building Official for a
variance. The Building Official shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council. The City
Council may attach those conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The provisions of §
151.06(C) are met; and
      (7)   The provisions of §
151.14(A) are met.
   (B)   The Building Official shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of §
151.15 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
that may be as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
151.15 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.170) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.18 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the SFA
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decisions made
lawfully thereunder.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.180) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
§ 151.19 ABROGATIONS AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances
adopted by the City Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program including Ordinances 1229 and 1253 of the city. However, the
ordinance codified in this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restriction. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.200) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986; Ord. 1297, passed - -1987)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the SFHA or failure to comply
with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance resolution shall
be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation the City
Attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The City Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of the
violation.
   (A)   If the owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make another order as the
Court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200; or
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall inform the owner that any violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1986 Code, § 22.12.190) (Ord. 1291, passed - -1986)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
Permits and Licenses
   
152.15   Manufactured home park; mobile home park; license and permit required
   
152.16   Manufactured home; mobile home; license required; application for
license; fee
Rules and Regulations
   
152.30   Use of city water and sewers mandatory
   
152.31   Placement of manufactured home or mobile home on lot
   
152.32   Parking space
   
152.33   Manufactured homes and mobile homes not for storage use
   
152.34   Age requirement for mobile homes and manufactured homes
   
152.35   Foundation and skirting
   
152.36   Injunctive relief
   
152.37   Certificate of title required
   
152.38   Tie-down requirement
   
152.39   Manufactured homes and special R-3 District
   
152.40   Inspection requirements for non-compliant/dangerous mobile home
   
152.41   Temporary living quarters
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME or MOBILE HOME. A factory-assembled, completely integrated
structure designed for permanent habitation, with a permanent chassis and so
constructed as to permit its transport, on wheels temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame and is a moveable or portable unit that is constructed to
be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of
its construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is
connected to utilities for year- round occupancy for use as a permanent
habitation and designed and situated so as to permit its occupancy as a
dwelling place for one or more persons. The term shall include units containing
parts that may be folded, collapsed or telescoped when being towed and that may
be expected to provide additional cubic capacity and that are designed to be
joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again into the
components for repeated towing. The term excludes campers and recreational
vehicles. The term excludes modular homes and their support systems.
(Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 152.15 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK; MOBILE HOME PARK; LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to establish or operate any manufactured home park or mobile
home park within the corporate limits of the city without first having obtained
a license therefor from the State Department of Public Health and a permit from
the City Council with a copy of the State Department of Public Health
accompanied by a $500 fee payable to the city.
(1986 Code, § 26.06.010) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 MANUFACTURED HOME; MOBILE HOME; LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR
LICENSE; FEE.
   It is unlawful to establish, maintain or operate any new manufactured home
or a mobile home in the city without first obtaining a permit with a fee of
$50.Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the Zoning Officer and
shall contain the name of the applicant, a copy of the state issued title and
certificate of inspection from a State of Illinois licensed inspector. All
manufactured homes and mobile homes must be habitable or being remodeled or
under construction to make the home habitable and must be completed within 90
days from inspection date and are subject to additional inspection fees.
(1986 Code, § 26.06.020) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 1408, passed - -1993;
Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 152.30 USE OF CITY WATER AND SEWERS MANDATORY.
   All manufactured homes and mobile homes that are located within the
corporate limits of the city must be connected to the city water mains and to
the city sewerage mains. No tap or connection shall be made to the city water
main or water line until a license has been secured, as provided in §
152.16.
(1986 Code, § 26.08.010) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME ON LOT.
   No manufactured home and mobile home shall be located closer than ten feet
to the lot lines of abutting property and shall be located to conform with the
existing setback line of the block. Where no setback line has been established,
the trailer shall be located no closer than 20 feet to the frontage line.
(1986 Code, § 26.08.020) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 PARKING SPACE.
   There shall be provided on each manufactured home or mobile home site one
off-street parking space, behind the building line, with access to street or
alley.
(1986 Code, § 26.08.030) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES NOT FOR STORAGE USE.
   All manufactured homes and mobile homes must be habitable or being remodeled
or under construction to make the home habitable. No manufactured home or
mobile home may be put into use as a storage building. Any manufactured home or
mobile home that is no longer habitable or be rendered habitable, shall be
removed from the city limits within 30 days of when the manufactured home or
mobile home is deemed to be uninhabitable.
(1986 Code, § 26.08.040) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 AGE REQUIREMENT FOR MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   No building permit may be issued for the placement of a mobile home or
manufactured home in the city and no building permit may be issued to move a
mobile home or manufactured home to another location within the city limits of
the city if the mobile home or manufactured home was manufactured during a
calendar year which was more than 15 years prior to the calendar year in which
the permit is requested. Exception, if a mobile home or a manufactured home is
replacing an older existing mobile home or manufactured home (by at least one
calendar year). A swap out will be allowed after age has been verified that it
is newer than current one and has been inspected by a state licensed inspector
and a copy of inspection provided. If the swapped out mobile home or
manufactured home (one being replaced) is more than 15 years old the owner will
be required to remove it from the city limits within 30 days. Violators of this
section will be subject to fines and penalties in §
152.99.
   (B)   A copy of a mobile home or manufactured home title confirming the age
of the manufactured home or mobile home is required to obtain the building
permit. In addition to the title, a copy of the inspection from a state
licensed inspector is required. All deficiencies found by the inspector must be
repaired within 90 days and then re-inspected to meet code requirements at the
expense of the owner.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.35 FOUNDATION AND SKIRTING.
   All newly installed manufactured homes and mobile homes foundation must be
sufficient to follow the Mobile Home Tie Down Act (refer to §
152.38). In addition, a front entry of a minimum of four feet by five feet with
steps, hand rail and railings and the rear exit will require steps with hand
rails. Skirting or underpinning shall be installed around the exterior
perimeter of a manufactured home or mobile home to enclose the underfloor area
from the bottom of the unit to the ground. The skirting or underpinning shall
be made of metal, vinyl or cinder blocks that is the same or similar color to
the manufactured or mobile home. No straw, hay or particle board are permitted
material for skirting or underpinning. The skirting or underpinning shall
provide for under floor access and ventilation.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.36 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
152.99 for the violation of the rules and regulations, the city may seek an
injunction in the County Circuit Court prohibiting violation of the rules and
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.37 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   All applicants for building permit to be issued by the city for placement of
a manufactured home or mobile home within the city limits or to move a
manufactured home or mobile home from one location to another location in the
city limits must provide a copy of the certificate of title for the
manufactured home or mobile home to the Zoning Officer when making application
for a required building permit. If a unit when manufactured was a manufactured
home or mobile home, the unit will always be a manufactured home or mobile home
for all rules and regulations of the city, regardless of any alterations or
modifications of the unit.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.38 TIE-DOWN REQUIREMENT.
   All manufactured homes or mobile homes which require tie downs must be tied
down in accordance with state law as required by the Illinois Mobile Home Tie
Down Act, being ILCS Ch. 210, Act 120, §§ 1 through 7 and any future amendments
thereto.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.39 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND SPECIAL R-3 DISTRICT.
   Any manufactured home installed in the special R-3 District must comply with
all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-0922-13, passed 9-22-2009; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.40 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-COMPLIANT/DANGEROUS MOBILE HOME.
   (A)   The city has the authority to require an inspection upon the
notification or complaint from the occupant or any persons regarding the
safety, appearance, or structural integrity of any rented or unrented mobile
homes or manufactured homes in the city limits. The inspection will be
completed by a State of Illinois licensed inspector. All fees and charges by
said person or company will be paid by the manufactured home or mobile home
owner.
   (B)   Any mobile home occupied as a dwelling or residence which shall be
found to have any of the following defects, shall be proscribed as unfit for
human habitation, or required to be brought up to standards of this chapter:
      (1)   The structure is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants or of the public;
      (2)   The structure lacks ventilation or sanitation facilities adequate
to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public;
      (3)   Any mobile home proscribed as unfit for human habitation shall be
vacated within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, as ordered by the
inspector or City Council;
      (4)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been proscribed as unfit for
human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from the inspector or City Council;
      (5)   Any owner of a mobile home declared unfit for human habitation
shall be given written notice of same and shall have a period of 90 days to
bring said mobile home into compliance with minimum housing standards and, in
the event they fail to do so, said mobile home shall be removed from the
premises;
      (6)   If said owner of said mobile home fails to bring said mobile home
into compliance within the required period, or fails to remove said mobile
home, the city shall have the right to go upon the property upon which said
mobile home is situated and remove, or cause to be removed, said mobile home
and the cost and expense of said removal shall be charged to the owner of said
mobile home. Any cost and expense incurred by the city in the storing of said
mobile home shall also be chargeable to, and the responsibility of, the owner
of said mobile home. Any such expenses so incurred by the city and not paid by
the owner within a period of 30 days after being provided of such expenses, and
upon filing of such notice in the county clerk's office, the city shall become
a lien holder upon any real estate and/or mobile home owned by said mobile home
owner.
(Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.41 TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS.
   Motor homes, travel trailers, camping trailers (commonly referred to as
"campers"), modified busses, semi-trailers, recreational vehicles (commonly
referred to as "RV's), or any other type of structure designed for temporary
living quarters may not be used within the corporate limits of the municipality
for permanent habitation. All such structures may be used for temporary living
for a period not to exceed 14 days in any 12-month period. In the event of
extenuating or emergency circumstances, a variance to this provision may
requested from and issued by the Mayor. The Mayor shall refer the matter to the
Zoning Board of Appeals within seven days of the variance being granted. The
Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet and consider the variance at the earliest
convenient date. Any recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall then
be considered by the City Council at its next available regularly scheduled
City Council meeting.
(Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or persons, violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than $150 for a first offense
   (B)   Continuation of violation. Any person having been previously convicted
for a violation of this chapter, shall on conviction of a second or subsequent
violation thereof be punished by a fine of not less than $300, but not more
than $750, plus all court costs, in the discretion of the court. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 26.02.020) (Ord. 918, passed - -1970; Ord. 19-0709-177, passed 7-
9-2019)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Preliminary plan and final plat; required submission; compliance
   
153.003   Progress in subdividing land or making improvements prohibited until
certification and approval of plats and plans
   
153.004   Authority to vary and make exceptions
   
153.005   Resubdivision
   
153.006   Permitted phasing
   
153.007   Definitions
Streets, Alleys and Easements
   
153.020   Street planning
   
153.021   Minimum street and easement standards and street design
   
153.022   Alley required and exception
   
153.023   Cul-de-sac
   
153.024   Half street
   
153.025   Designation of streets
   
153.026   Entry from state or county highway to subdivision; permit required
   
153.027   Easements; required widths
   
153.028   Watercourses, drainage ways, channels or streams
Blocks
   
153.040   Length; crosswalks
   
153.041   Design
Lots
   
153.055   Minimum lot area; street frontage
   
153.056   Lot abutment; required
   
153.057   Side lines; design
   
153.058   Double frontage lots
   
153.059   Lots abutting watercourses, drainage ways, channels or streams
Procedure and Requirements
   
153.070   Preliminary plans
   
153.071   Application fee
   
153.072   Required information on application
   
153.073   Duties of City Engineer
   
153.074   City Council action
Preliminary Plan
   
153.085   Identification and description
   
153.086   Delineation of existing conditions
   
153.087   Approval governed by certain qualifications
   
153.088   Custody of prints
Approval of Final Plat
   
153.100   Filing
   
153.101   Time limit for action
   
153.102   Time limit for recording
Final Plat and Documents
   
153.115   Identification and description
   
153.116   Delineation
   
153.117   Recording final plat; agreements
Required Improvements
   
153.130   Certification by City Engineer required
   
153.131   Sewers
   
153.132   Street improvements
   
153.133   Public utilities
   
153.134   Sidewalks
   
153.135   Street lighting
   
153.136   Inspection
Variations and Exceptions
   
153.150   Procedure
Record of Plats
   
153.165   Custody
Enforcement
   
153.180   Method
Annexation
   
153.195   City policy
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   Whereof, it is desirable that an ordinance be adopted providing for the
platting of subdivision of property in the corporate limits and within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits of the city and for improvements made to
streets, alleys and sidewalks so that streets, alleys and sidewalks therein may
be laid out in an orderly and harmonious manner and coordinated with existing
streets, alleys and sidewalks to promote public safety in the use of the
streets, alleys and sidewalks by traffic and other use thereof, and so that the
streets, alleys and sidewalks may be improved, maintained and drained and made
safe for public use in an economical manner; and that extension of street light
lines, electric lines, water and sewer lines, and gas lines may be installed,
improved and maintained in an economical manner, and so that all lots in the
corporate limits and within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of
the city shall be readily accessible for fire trucks and fire apparatus, and so
that survey lines of all lots, blocks and streets and alleys may be easily
located, and so that the public health and safety may be improved.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.002 PRELIMINARY PLAN AND FINAL PLAT; REQUIRED SUBMISSION; COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the
corporate limits or within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of
the city, the subdivider thereof, or his or her agent, shall submit both a
preliminary plan and a final subdivision plat to the City Council. The plans
and plats, proposed improvements and all procedures relating thereto, shall in
all respects, be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter contained
in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.003 PROGRESS IN SUBDIVIDING LAND OR MAKING IMPROVEMENTS PROHIBITED UNTIL
CERTIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF PLATS AND PLANS.
   (A)   No land in the corporate limits or within one and one-half miles of
the corporate limits of the city shall, after the adoption of these
regulations, be subdivided into lots, or lots and blocks or plat thereof filed
for record, nor any street laid out, nor any improvements made to the land, nor
any improvements made to streets, alleys or sidewalks, until the plat or plans
of the subdivision or street improvements shall have been certified to and
approved by action of the City Council. This approval must be in writing and
placed on the original tracing of the final plats according to the procedure
outlined hereafter.
   (B)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given until the subdivision plans have been officially approved by the City
Council.
   (C)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or grading, paving or
grading of streets, shall hereafter be made within any subdivision by any owner
or owners, or his, her or their agents, until the plats for the subdivision and
also the plans for improvement thereto have been officially approved by the
City Council.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.004 AUTHORITY TO VARY AND MAKE EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council may vary and make exceptions as set forth herein in
instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of hardship
caused by topographic conditions, or where any other reasonable deterrents
prevail.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.040) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.005 RESUBDIVISION.
   Whenever the area is divided into lots containing one to three acres,
inclusive, and there are indications that the lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangements of the original subdivision so that additional
minor streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller
lots.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.050) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.006 PERMITTED PHASING.
   The City Council may permit the development of a subdivision in two or more
phases; provided that the subdivider shall submit a detail plan showing the
arrangement of lots in the entire subdivision, together with all rights-of-way,
easements and roads, necessary to comply with this chapter and to demonstrate
that development of the entire subdivision is feasible.
(1986 Code, § 20.02.060) (Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, not less than 15 feet in width and not more than 25
feet, along the side of or in the rear of properties, intended to provide
access to those properties.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.010)
   BUILDING LINE. A line within a lot or parcel of land, so designated on the
plat of the proposed subdivision.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.020)
   COLLECTOR STREET. Those which are used to carry traffic from minor streets
and highways, including the principal entrance streets to a residential
development and circulation streets within the development.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.030)
   CROSS-WALKWAY. A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.040)
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by
a vehicle turn-around.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.050)
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on the
primary streets.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.070)
   MINOR STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.080)
   PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity which serves or
is intended to serve as a major traffic artery between the various sections of
the city.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.090)
   PUBLIC STREET. All primary, secondary and minor streets which are shown on
the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.100)
   SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of residential development and streets for circulation within a development.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.110)
   STREET. An area other than an alley which serves or is intended to serve as
a vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.120)
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between line of lots delineating the
public street.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.130)
   SUBDIVIDER. The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording
the plat of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements
outlined in these regulations for the subdividing of land.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.140)
   SUBDIVISION. 
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   The division of land into two or more lots, sites or parcels of
three acres or less in area;
         (b)   The establishment or dedication of a road, highway, street or
alley through a tract of land regardless of its area; or
         (c)   The resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into
lots, sites or parcels.
      (2)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners, where the sale or exchange does not create additional lots,
shall not be considered as a SUBDIVISION.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.150)
   UTILITY EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
by the city or any private utility for the purpose of installing lines
underground or poles above ground for electricity, telephone, water, storm and
sanitary sewer, or gas or other utility.
(1986 Code, § 20.04.060)
(Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
STREETS, ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS
§ 153.020 STREET PLANNING.
   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all streets, alleys or other land to be dedicated
for public use shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
those streets.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.021 MINIMUM STREET AND EASEMENT STANDARDS AND STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   All rights-of-way shall conform to the following minimum dimensions in
all subdivisions hereafter laid out:
 
Collector street        60 feet wide
Cross-walkways          8 feet
Minor street            60 feet wide
Primary or major street 80 feet wide
Secondary street        60 feet wide
Turn-around             75 feet radius
Utility easement        10 feet or as necessary
 
   (B)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (C)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (D)   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street shall be
provided for at least 300 feet on all primary streets, 200 feet on secondary
streets and at least 150 feet on all other streets.
   (E)   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and confluences
encourage safe traffic flow.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.022 ALLEY REQUIRED AND EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Alleys will be required in commercial and industrial districts.
   (B)   Alleys shall be optional in residential areas except where
topographical or other conditions may necessitate their use.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.023 CUL-DE-SAC.
   The maximum length cul-de-sac shall be 500 feet measured along the
centerline from the intersection at the origin through the center of circle to
end of right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular
shape with a minimum diameter of 150 feet with the entrance radius having a
minimum of 25 feet.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.040) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.024 HALF STREET.
   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the reasonable
development of the subdivision in conformity with the other requirements of
these regulations. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be planned within the tract. No
strip or area shall be reserved along any portion of a street, half street or
alley, which will prevent adjacent property owners access thereto.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.050) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.025 DESIGNATION OF STREETS.
   No street designations may be used which will duplicate, or be confused
with, the designations of existing streets. Existing street designations must
be protected wherever possible.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.060) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.026 ENTRY FROM STATE OR COUNTY HIGHWAY TO SUBDIVISION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   If the tract of land proposed to be subdivided or any part thereof lies
adjacent to a highway over which the Division of Highways of the state or the
County Highway Department has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and
upkeep thereof, and an entrance or entrances are desired from the highway to
lots, streets, roadways or alleys in the proposed subdivision, the subdivider
shall submit to the City Council a written permit from the Division of Highways
or County Highway Superintendent granting him or her permission to obtain and
construct an entrance or entrances.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.070) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.027 EASEMENTS; REQUIRED WIDTHS.
   Easements of not less than ten feet in width shall be provided on each side
of all rear lot lines, and along side lot lines where necessary, for conduits,
storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water, other mains and pole lines. Easements of
greater width may be required along or across lots when necessary for extension
of main sewers or other utilities or where both water and sewer lines are
located in the same easements.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.080) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.028 WATERCOURSES, DRAINAGE WAYS, CHANNELS OR STREAMS.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, the subdivider shall, at his or her own expense, make
adequate provision for straightening or widening the channel so that it will
properly carry the surface water, and shall provide and dedicate to the city or
the county or assigns, an easement along each side of the stream, which
easement shall be for the purpose of widening, improving or protecting the
stream.
   (B)   The width of the easement shall not be less than 20 feet from the top
of the bank on both sides, and the total width of the easement shall be
adequate to provide for any necessary channel relocations and straightenings.
(1986 Code, § 20.06.090) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
BLOCKS
§ 153.040 LENGTH; CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   The maximum length of blocks shall be 1,500 feet.
   (B)   Blocks over 800 feet may require cross-walkways.
(1986 Code, § 20.08.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.041 DESIGN.
   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks must fit
easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their design must evidence
consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public areas.
(1986 Code, § 20.08.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
LOTS
§ 153.055 MINIMUM LOT AREA; STREET FRONTAGE.
   The minimum lot area shall be 7,200 square feet and frontage on street shall
be 60 feet.
(1986 Code, § 20.10.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.056 LOT ABUTMENT; REQUIRED.
   All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
(1986 Code, § 20.10.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.057 SIDE LINES; DESIGN.
   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial to the
street line.
(1986 Code, § 20.10.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.058 DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   (A)   Double frontage lots are forbidden except where lots back upon a
primary street (major thoroughfare) and in those instances, vehicular access
between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited or where topography of the
land might render subdivision otherwise unreasonable.
   (B)   These lots shall have an additional depth of at least ten feet in
order to allow for a protective screen planting.
(1986 Code, § 20.10.040) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.059 LOTS ABUTTING WATERCOURSES, DRAINAGE WAYS, CHANNELS OR STREAMS.
   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, shall have
additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building
site.
(1986 Code, § 20.10.050) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.070 PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   Any owner of land which is within the corporate limits or within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits of the city wishing to divide the same
into building lots for the purposes of sale or assessment or both, or wishing
to dedicate streets, alleys or other lands for public use shall first submit to
the City Council, four copies of the preliminary plan and all other information
as required in this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 20.12.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.071 APPLICATION FEE.
   The subdivider shall pay to the city with submission of a preliminary plan a
fee in the amount of $50 plus $10 per lot.
(1986 Code, § 20.12.015) (Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.072 REQUIRED INFORMATION ON APPLICATION.
   The application shall specify the intent of the subdivider with respect to
land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water supply and street improvement
proposed by the subdivider; what, if any, restrictions exist or are to be
placed on the property to be subdivided, and the expected date of its
development.
(1986 Code, § 20.12.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.073 DUTIES OF CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall collaborate with the subdivider. The City Engineer
shall, within 30 days from receipt, submit his or her written recommendations
for approval or disapproval to the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 20.12.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.074 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   The preliminary plans shall be submitted to the City Council and copies
submitted to the Chairpersons of Street and Bridge, Water and Sewer, Gas and
Electric Committees, at least ten days prior to the regular meeting of the
Council to receive action thereon at that meeting.
(1986 Code, § 20.12.040)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 153.085 IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   The preliminary plat and accompanying documents shall contain the following:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
   (B)   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description;
   (C)   Names and addresses of developer and designer who made the plan;
   (D)   Scale of plan, one inch to 100 feet or larger;
   (E)   Date; and
   (F)   Northpoint.
(1986 Code, § 20.14.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.086 DELINEATION OF EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy line
and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
   (B)   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted streets or
other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other public
open spaces or permanent easements, and section and corporation lines, within
or adjacent to the tract and or other relevant information required by the City
Engineer;
   (C)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities
within the tract or adjacent to the tract, indicating pipe sizes, grades,
manholes and exact location;
   (D)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided land
showing names of subdivisions;
   (E)   Layout of streets, widths of rights-of-way and also the widths of
cross-walkways and easements;
   (F)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots;
   (G)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for
public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;
   (H)   Building setback lines showing dimensions;
   (I)   Easements shall be provided for any and all public utilities where
alleys are not provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block to
block shall be maintained;
   (J)   Location, size and approximate grades of proposed sewers;
   (K)   Proposed street grades;
   (L)   Proposed location of water, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, electric
and telephone outlets; and
   (M)   Water courses, drainage ways, channels and streams, if any.
(1986 Code, § 20.14.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.087 APPROVAL GOVERNED BY CERTAIN QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The approval of a preliminary plan by the City Council is tentative
only, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as submitted.
   (B)   The City Council may recommend or require the changes or revisions as
are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the community.
   (C)   Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering proposals
pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage disposal, gas
and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants, grading, gradients and
roadway widths and the surfacing of streets by the City Engineer.
   (D)   No plat will be approved for the subdivision of land which is subject
to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities and
which would make adequate drainage of the streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City
Engineer where concerned, make the area completely safe for residential
occupancy and provide adequate street drainage, the preliminary plan of the
subdivision may be approved.
   (E)   The approval of a preliminary plan by the City Council is strictly
tentative, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout submitted.
This approval shall be effective for a maximum period of 12 months, unless upon
application of the developer, the City Council grants an extension. If the
final plat has not been recorded within this time limit, the preliminary plan
must again be submitted for approval.
(1986 Code, § 20.14.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.088 CUSTODY OF PRINTS.
   (A)   One print of the approved preliminary plan, signed by the Mayor and
the City Clerk, shall be retained in the City Clerk’s office and two copies in
the office of the City Engineer.
   (B)   One signed copy is authorization for the subdivider to proceed with
the preparation of plans and specifications for the minimum improvements
required in these rules and regulations and with the preparation of the final
plat.
(1986 Code, § 20.14.040) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT
§ 153.100 FILING.
   After approval of the preliminary plan by the Council, and the fulfillment
of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the final plat of the
subdivision, drawn in ink on tracing cloth not to exceed 29 inches by 34 inches
in size, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval.
(1986 Code, § 20.16.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.101 TIME LIMIT FOR ACTION.
   Action must be taken by the City Council within 30 days after the final plat
has been submitted for approval.
(1986 Code, § 20.16.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.102 TIME LIMIT FOR RECORDING.
   Upon approval of the City Council, the developer shall record the plan with
the Recorder of the county within six months. If not recorded within this time,
the approval shall be null and void.
(1986 Code, § 20.16.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
FINAL PLAT AND DOCUMENTS
§ 153.115 IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   The final plat and accompanying documents shall contain the following:
   (A)   Name of subdivision;
   (B)   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description;
   (C)   Names of owners and certification by a licensed surveyor;
   (D)   Scale of one inch to 100 feet or larger (shown graphically);
   (E)   Date; and
   (F)   Northpoint.
(1986 Code, § 20.18.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.116 DELINEATION.
   (A)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
lineal dimensions;
   (B)   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and adjoining the
plat, and the exact location and widths of all cross-walkways. Proposed street
names shall be shown;
   (C)   Certified survey showing dimensions to property lines and
accessibility to public streets;
   (D)   Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved and
recorded, the subdivider shall furnish profiles of all streets and alleys in
the proposed subdivision, drawn to a scale of 50 feet to the inch and a
vertical scale of five feet to the inch. Elevations shall be referred to a
permanent recorded benchmark of the city datum. Street grades for major streets
shall comply with §
153.132;
   (E)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments (not less than three), which shall be accurately described
in the plat;
   (F)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
   (G)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs;
   (H)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services and
utilities;
   (I)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths;
   (J)   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points of
tangency of curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches by four
inches, and 36 inches long, with a steel dowel three-eighths inch in diameter,
at least two and one-half inches in length, embedded so that the top of the
dowel shall be flush with the surface and at the center of the monument. All
lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by galvanized or
wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least 18 inches in length and not
less than one-half inch in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar is to be set
level with the established grade of the ground. The location of all concrete
and iron monuments shall be shown on the map;
   (K)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any area to be dedicated
or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any
area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners;
   (L)   Building setback lines, if any, accurately shown by dimensions;
   (M)   Protective covenants, if any, which meet with the approval of the City
Council shall be lettered on the final plat;
   (N)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers shown
thereon, exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct;
   (O)   Notarized certification, by owner or owners, or by any mortgage holder
on record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
   (P)   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property to be subdivided have been paid in full;
   (Q)   Proper form for the approval of the City Council with space for
signatures;
   (R)   Approval by signatures of city, county and state officials concerned
with the specification of utility installations; and
   (S)   This approval of the final plat shall be deemed to constitute or
effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat.
(1986 Code, § 20.18.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.117 RECORDING FINAL PLAT; AGREEMENTS.
   The final plat to be filed of record shall be accompanied by a statement
signed by the owner and subdivider, setting forth the following:
   (A)   Plans and specifications for the improvements previously approved by
the City Engineer clearly describing the same;
   (B)   Agreement executed by the owner and the subdivider wherein they agree
to make and install the improvements provided for in §§
153.130 through
153.136 in accordance with the plans and specifications accompanying the final
plat;
   (C)   Bond in the amount of the estimate of the City Engineer of the cost of
the installation of the improvements with good and sufficient surety thereon to
be approved by the City Council, conditioned upon the installation of the
required improvements within two years of the approval of the final plat; and
   (D)   In lieu of the provisions of division (C) above, in the event that a
dated petition is presented to the Zoning Board containing the signatures of
the recorded owners representing a majority of the frontage along the
improvement, requesting the City Council’s approval to install improvements as
provided in §§
153.131,
153.132 and
153.133, then the requirements of division (C) above may be waived.
(1986 Code, § 20.18.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.130 CERTIFICATION BY CITY ENGINEER REQUIRED.
   No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement
signed by the City Engineer certifying that the improvements described in the
subdivider’s plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the city and that comply with this
subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.131 SEWERS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with specifications
established by the City Engineer and shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system of the city, or to a specially constructed sanitary sewage disposal
plant in accordance with plans acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Lots which cannot reasonably be served by either a public sanitary
sewer system shall have a minimum width of 75 feet, measured at the building
line, and a minimum area of 15,000 square feet. In case of unusual soil
conditions or other physical factors which may impair the health and safety of
the neighborhood in which a subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of
the State Department of Public Health or Environmental Protection Agency, the
City Council may increase lot area requirements as may be necessary.
   (C)   When required by the City Engineer, storm sewers shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision which shall be separate and independent of
the sanitary sewer system and which shall provide an adequate outlet, or
connection with the storm sewer system of the city. When storm sewers are not
installed, adequate facilities for the removal of surface water shall be
provided throughout the entire subdivision.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.020) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.132 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Grades of streets shall not be in excess of 6% on primary or secondary
streets, nor in excess of 8% on other streets, nor have a minimum grade of less
than 0.05%.
   (B)   (1)   All streets within the corporate limits or within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of the city shall be improved by grading
them to their full width (as specified below) including side slopes, and to the
appropriate grade and shall be surfaced according to city specifications with
one of the following alternates:
         (a)   Seven and one-half inches of compacted crushed stone or gravel
with an A-3 seal;
         (b)   Six inches of compacted gravel or crushed stone base course with
two inches of hot plant mix bituminous surface; or
         (c)   Six inches of portland cement concrete pavement without mesh.
      (2)   The city may specify a higher construction standard for arterial
and collector streets; however, in these instances the city shall assume the
difference in cost.
 
Type of Street           Minimum Roadway Width
Collector streets        32 feet between insides of curbs
Culs-de-sac              32 feet between insides of curbs
Minor streets            32 feet between insides of curbs
Primary or major streets 32 feet between insides of curbs
Secondary streets        32 feet between insides of curbs
 
   (C)   Curbs and gutters on minor residential streets shall meet the
specifications of the Department of Transportation-Division of Highways
concerning curbs and gutters.
   (D)   Stormwater inlets shall be provided within the roadway improvement at
points specified by the city.
   (E)   All curb corners shall have radii of not less than 15 feet, and at
important intersections, not less than 25 feet.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.030) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.133 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone and electric services shall be placed
in rear-line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Where telephone and electric service lines are placed underground
entirely throughout a subdivided area, the conduits or cables shall be placed
within easements or dedicated public way, in a manner which will not conflict
with other underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall be
located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.040) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.134 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks four feet in width, five inches in depth, and separated
from the back of the curb and gutter by a minimum of four feet earth width,
shall be constructed along both sides of every street shown on the plat of a
subdivision that is located within the corporate limits or within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of the city. These sidewalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements for sidewalk construction of
the city. With the consent of the City Council, a developer may delay sidewalk
construction until 50% of the lots are sold.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.050) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959; Ord. 1463, passed - -1996)
§ 153.135 STREET LIGHTING.
   Provisions shall be made by the city for the adequate lighting of public
streets within the proposed subdivision, in accordance with the standards and
requirements established by the governing authorities.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.060) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.136 INSPECTION.
   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the city or a
duly qualified person. All fees and costs connected with the inspection and in
reviewing the plans and specifications for the improvements shall be paid by
the subdivider. The fees and cost shall be set at the prevailing rate.
(1986 Code, § 20.20.090) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 153.150 PROCEDURE.
   When the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations, if
strictly adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship and when in the opinion
of the City Council, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of the
provision, the City Council may recommend a variance or modification. The
subdivider shall apply in writing for a variance or modification of the action.
Any variance or modification thus authorized, shall be attached to and made
part of the final plat.
(1986 Code, § 20.22.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
RECORD OF PLATS
§ 153.165 CUSTODY.
   All of the plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted and
approved, as provided in this chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of
the city and shall be filed and kept by the city among the records of the city.
(1986 Code, § 20.24.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.180 METHOD.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Recorder’s office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 20.26.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
ANNEXATION
§ 153.195 CITY POLICY.
   The City Council declares that it is the policy of this Council not to
hereafter annex any subdivision outside of the city unless this chapter has
been complied with, and that it is the policy of the city not to extend any
municipal electric, gas, water or sewer service to any subdivision inside or
outside of the city limits unless this chapter is complied with, and it is the
policy of the city not to accept any streets or alleys dedicated for public use
unless this chapter is complied with.
(1986 Code, § 20.28.010) (Ord. 754, passed 9-1-1959)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who constructs any public improvement
or portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be,
upon conviction, fined not less than $25 or more than $250 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease, while
this chapter is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the
incorporated limits of the city, or any additions thereto, or any resubdivision
of any lot or block therein, before all of the requirements of this chapter
have been complied with, shall be fined not less than $25 or more than $250 for
each lot, block or part thereof so disposed of, offered for sale or lease.
(1986 Code, § 20.32.010)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Zoning districts established; zoning map
   
154.002   Effective date
   
154.003   Definitions
Interpretation
   
154.015   Uses
   
154.016   Nonconforming uses
   
154.017   Open space and height
Group Housing Projects
   
154.030   Application
   
154.031   Restriction
Off-Street Loading and Parking
   
154.045   Commercial purposes
   
154.046   Off-street automobile storage or standing spaces
   
154.047   Space permitted on different lot than principal use
Removal of Nonconforming Signs and Open Land Uses
   
154.060   Proper notification; time limit
Zoning District Schedule
   
154.075   R-1 District
   
154.076   R-2 District
   
154.077   R-3 District
   
154.0771   RR District
   
154.078   B-1 District
   
154.079   B-2 District
   
154.080   B-3 District
   
154.081   I District
   
154.082   P District
   
154.083   A District
   
154.084   Additional provisions
Special Exceptions
   
154.095   Permit; application
   
154.096   Special use permit; publication
   
154.097   Use permit; issuance
   
154.098   Granting or denying application
   
154.099   Reversal of decision of Zoning Board of Appeals
Multi-Family Dwellings
   
154.110   Conditions for special exceptions
   
154.111   Application for permit
   
154.112   Plans and specifications
   
154.113   Granting or denying application
   
154.114   Prior notice by publication
   
154.115   Rear yard; total lot coverage; lot area reduction
   
154.116   Off-street parking
   
154.117   Zoning Board of Appeals; action
   
154.118   Special exception for change in use or alteration of structure
   
154.119   Reversal of decision of Zoning Board of Appeals
Truck Bodies and Portable Cargo Containers
   
154.130   Prohibition of placement in certain areas
   
154.130.1   Regulation of portable cargo containers in a B-1 and B-2 District
   
154.130.2   Standards for a building permit in a B-1 and B-2 District
   
154.130.3   Deviations from a building permit
   
154.131   Prohibition of placement close to certain streets and roads
   
154.132   Remedies available
   
154.133   Building permit required
Enforcement and Administration
   
154.145   Appointment of Building and Zoning Officer
   
154.146   Powers and duties of Building and Zoning Officer
   
154.147   Violations
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.160   Established
   
154.161   Who may make an appeal
   
154.162   Hearing; notification; representation
   
154.163   Powers
   
154.164   Concurring vote
   
154.165   Rules and conduct of affairs and meetings
   
154.166   Record of official acts
Amendments
   
154.180   Authority of City Council
   
154.181   Public hearing
   
154.182   Passage of amendment
Fees
   
154.195   Special exception permit fee
   
154.196   Building permit fee
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP.
   The city and territory contiguous to the city limits is hereby divided into
zone districts as shown on the official zoning district map dated and filed in
the office of the City Clerk. The map and all explanatory matter thereon are
hereby made a part of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 28.02.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.002 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after ten days after
its passage, approval and publication as provided by law; passed August 15,
1972; approved August 15, 1972.
(1986 Code, § 28.02.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms or words
used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
      (3)   The word SHALL is mandatory, the word MAY is permissive.
      (4)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied.
      (5)   The word LOT includes the words plot or parcel.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.010)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same premises with,
and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use of
the main structure.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.020)
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by three or
more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.050)
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residence designed for or occupied by
one family only.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.030)
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by two
families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.040)
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single housekeeping unit and
using common cooking facilities; provided that unless all members are related
by blood or marriage, no FAMILY shall contain over five members.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.060)
      HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any occupation or activity conducted entirely within a
dwelling or accessory structure and carried on only by the inhabitants thereof,
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
residence purposes with which there is no advertising other than an
identification sign of no more than three square feet in area. The occupation
or activity shall not change the character thereof or adversely affect the uses
permitted in the residential district in which it is a part. Adequate off-
street parking shall be provided by the owner.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.070)
      LOT. For zoning purposes, as covered by this chapter, a LOT is a parcel
of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for
use, coverage and area, and to provide yards and other open spaces as are
herein required. The LOTS shall have frontage on an improved public street, and
may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; and
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residential lot or parcel be
created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.080)
      LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under the
definitions for yards in this section.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.090)
      LOT MEASUREMENTS.
         (a)   DEPTH OF A LOT shall be considered to be the distance between
the midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
         (b)   WIDTH OF A LOT shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured across the rear of the required front yard; provided, however, that
width between side lot lines at their foremost points (where they intersect
with the street line) shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width
except in the case of lots on the turning circle of culs-de-sac, where the 80%
requirement shall not apply.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.100)
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.110)
      MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 67-1/2, § 502
(a), as amended, or a structure with a United States Housing and Urban
Development Department mobile home seal affixed thereto.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.112)
      MODULAR HOME. A structure as defined in Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 67-1/2, § 502
(i), as amended, or a structure with a State Public Health Department modular
seal affixed thereto.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.114)
      OLD TOWN. The territory which lies within the corporate limits of the
city upon the effective date of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.120)
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE shall comprise not
less than 180 square feet of parking stall plus necessary maneuvering space.
Space for maneuvering incidental to parking or unparking shall not encroach
upon any public way. Any OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE shall be accessible from a
public way.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.130)
      PORTABLE CARGO CONTAINER. A six-sided steel unit originally constructed
as a general cargo container used for the transport of goods and materials by
land, sea, or air; capable of being moved or mounted by rail, truck, or boat.
This definition also includes the terms “portable moving/storage unit/
container/pod” and “cargo/oceangoing/transport container” and any similar unit,
including but not limited to an Intermodal Shipping Container. In addition,
this definition includes any structure designed to be used for or designed to
imitate a shipping container or having a similar appearance to and similar
characteristics of an Intermodal Shipping Container.
      SEMITRAILER. A licensed vehicle without motive power drawn by a motor
vehicle (semitruck/semitractor) designed for carrying freight, material and
other goods with part of its weight and the weight of the load rests upon or is
carried by the motor vehicle. A semitrailer including those with the frame and/
or axles and wheels removed is not and shall not be used as and for uses for
which an Intermodal Shipping Container is allowed.
      SHORT TERM RENTALS. A rental of a residential dwelling unit or accessory
building for periods of less than 30 consecutive days.
      SIGN. Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the sign is located; provided, however, that the
following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
         (a)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
         (b)   Flags and insignias of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
         (c)   Legal notices; identification, information or directional signs
erected or required by government bodies;
         (d)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings,
except letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights; or
         (e)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.140)
      SIGN, OFF-SITE. A sign other than an on-site sign.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.170)
      SIGN, ON-SITE. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services or activities on
the premises. ON-SITE SIGNS do not include signs erected by the outdoor
advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising business.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.160
      SIGNS, NUMBER AND SURFACE AREA. For the purpose of determining NUMBER OF
SIGNS, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display
device containing elements organized, related or composed to form a unit. Where
matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of
elements, or where there is reasonable doubt about the relationship of
elements, each element shall be considered to be a single sign. The SURFACE
AREA OF A SIGN shall be computed as including the entire sign area within a
regular geometric form or combinations or regular geometric forms comprising
all of the display area of the sign and including all of the elements of the
matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing advertising matter
shall not be included in computation of surface area.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.150)
      SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS. A use that would not be appropriate generally or
without restriction throughout the zoning division or district but which, if
controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would
promote the public health, safety or general welfare. These uses may be
permitted in a zoning division or district as SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS if specific
provision for the SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS are made in §§
154.075 through
154.084 and
154.095 through
154.099. SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS may also be granted for a variance in height, area
and size of structures or spaces if all provisions of §§
154.095 through
154.099 are met.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.180)
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, among
other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, billboards and
poster panels.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.190)
      TRAILER PARK. A plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.200)
      TRUCK BODY or TRUCK BODIES. An enclosed cargo area removed from the truck
chassis. A Box Truck Body is not and shall not be used as and for uses for
which an Intermodal Shipping Container is allowed.
      YARD. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure
or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general ground level of the
graded lot upward; provided however that walls may be permitted in any yard
subject to height limitations as indicated herein.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.210)
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of
a lot. In any required FRONT YARD, no fence or wall shall be permitted which
materially impedes vision across the yard above the height of 30 inches, and no
hedge or other vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes vision
across the yard between the heights of 30 inches and ten feet.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.220)
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between inner
side yard lines.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.240)
      YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the rear line of the required front
yard to the rear lot line.
(1986 Code, § 28.20.230)
(Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972; Ord. 1293, passed - -1987; Ord. 19-1112-189,
passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 22-1108-317, passed 11-08-2022)
INTERPRETATION
§ 154.015 USES.
   In each zone district, land and structures may be used only for purposes
specified in the zoning schedule, §§
154.075 through
154.084.
(1986 Code, § 28.04.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.016 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any use of structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent
amendment of this chapter but not in conformity with its provisions may be
continued with the following limitations.
   (B)   Any use or building which does not conform to this chapter may not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming use;
      (2)   Reestablished after discontinuance for two years; or
      (3)   Enlarged, increased or moved, except in conformity to this chapter.
   (C)   Any structure existing at the time of the enactment of a subsequent
amendment of this chapter but not in conformity by reason only of setback lines
or side yard lines may be rebuilt on the same lines or be built on different
lines so long as it is rebuilt no closer to the property lines than the
original building where the building was not in conformity to the setback lines
and no closer to other property lines than is provided in §§
154.075 through
154.084.
(1986 Code, § 28.04.020) (Ord. 1045, passed 8-10-1976)
§ 154.017 OPEN SPACE AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   In each zone district each structure erected or altered shall be
provided with the yards specified, shall be on a lot of the area and width
specified, and shall not exceed the heights specified in the zoning schedule,
§§
154.075 through
154.084.
   (B)   No open space or lot required for a building or structure shall during
its life be occupied by or counted as open space for another building or
structure.
(1986 Code, § 28.04.030) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS
§ 154.030 APPLICATION.
   In the case of a housing project consisting of a group of five or more
buildings to be constructed on a plot ground of at least three acres not
subdivided into the customary streets and lots and which will not be so
subdivided or where the existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it
impracticable to apply the requirements of this chapter to the individual
buildings in the housing projects, the application of the requirements to the
housing project shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals in a manner that
will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a
density of land use no higher and a standard of open space at least as high as
required by this chapter in the district in which the proposed project is to be
located.
(1986 Code, § 28.06.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.031 RESTRICTION.
   In no case shall the Zoning Board of Appeals authorize a use or a building
height prohibited in the district in which the housing project is to be
located.
(1986 Code, § 28.06.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING
§ 154.045 COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   Space for off-street loading of vehicles shall be provided for every
building used or designed for commercial purposes in an amount considered
adequate by the Zoning Officer for the proposed use for new construction,
except in the Old Town Area, after the effective date of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 28.08.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.046 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE STORAGE OR STANDING SPACES.
   Off-street automobile storage or standing spaces shall be provided on every
lot, except in the Old Town Area, on which any of the following uses are
hereafter established; the space shall be provided with vehicular access to a
street or alley and shall be deemed to be required open space associated with
the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any
manner:
 
Assisted living facility                1 parking space for every 3 units
Dwelling                                1 parking space for each unit
                                        1 parking space for each 5 workers,
                                        based on peak employment and adequate
Industrial, manufacturing or wholesale  space for loading and unloading all
establishments                          vehicles used incidental to the
                                        operation of the industrial or
                                        manufacturing establishment
Office building                         1 parking space for each 200 square
                                        feet of office floor area
Stores and other retail business        1 parking space for each 1,000 square
establishments                          feet of total sales area
Theater, stadium, auditorium, church or 1 parking space for each 10 seats,
other places of public assembly         based on maximum seating capacity
Tourist accommodations                  1 parking space for each room unit
                                        offered for tourist accommodations
 
(1986 Code, § 28.08.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972; Ord. 1620, passed 12-28-
2004)
§ 154.047 SPACE PERMITTED ON DIFFERENT LOT THAN PRINCIPAL USE.
   Where space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot with the principal
use, the Zoning Board of Appeals may permit space to be located on other off-
street property provided the space is within 500 feet of the permitted use
measured along lines of public access.
(1986 Code, § 28.08.030) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND OPEN LAND USES
§ 154.060 PROPER NOTIFICATION; TIME LIMIT.
   All nonconforming signs, of all types and not exempted by the definition
thereof, and all nonconforming open land uses such as storage yards, junk
yards, parking lots open to public use and the like shall be removed and made
to conform to the provisions of this chapter within a period of two years after
the adoption of this chapter and the mailing of a notice instructing the
removal by the Zoning Officer.
(1986 Code, § 28.10.010)
ZONING DISTRICT SCHEDULE
§ 154.075 R-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions. Single-family dwellings and accessory structures.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Schools;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Parks;
      (4)   Home occupations; and
      (5)   Short term rentals.
   (C)   Requirements.
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Requirements
Lot area           9,000 sq. ft.
Lot width          75 ft.
Front setback      30 ft.*
Side yard total    20 ft.
Interior minimum   5 ft.
Corner side yard   20 ft.
Rear yard          10 ft.
Floor area         1,200 sq. ft.
Maximum Limitations
Height (stories)   2.5
Total lot coverage 30%
*   Setback lines in Old Town shall conform to setback lines of existing
adjacent buildings
 
(1986 Code, § 28.12.010) (Ord. 1293, passed - -1987; Ord. 18-0612-156, passed
6-12-2018; Ord. 19-1112-189, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 154.076 R-2 DISTRICT.
   For purposes of this section, the term MOBILE HOME shall have the same
definition as set forth in §
152.01 of this code.
   (A)   Basic provisions. 
      (1)   Single family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings; and
      (3)   Accessory structures.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Same as R-1 District;
      (2)   New multi-family dwellings;
      (3)   Modular homes;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Short term rentals; and
      (6)   Replacing a mobile home, provided that the following two conditions
exist:
         (a)   The mobile home that is being replaced has been at the same
location prior to enactment of Ordinance 992, enacted January 8,1974; and
         (b)   The replacement mobile home must be a model that was
manufactured no later than five years from when the application for the special
exception is made (for this subsection (b) the model date that is listed on the
certificate of title for the mobile home shall be used to verify the age of the
mobile home).
   (C)   Requirements.
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Requirements
Lot area
   First unit        6,000 sq. ft.
   Each additional un2,000 sq. ft.
Lot width               50 ft.
Front setback           25 ft.*
Side yard total
   First unit        15 ft.
   Each additional un18 ft.
Interior minimum
   First unit        5 ft.
   Each additional un8 ft.
Corner side yard        20 ft.
Rear yard               7 ft.
Floor area
   First unit        600 sq. ft.
   Additional unit   500 sq. ft.
Maximum Limitations
Height (stories)        2.5
Total lot coverage      30%
*   Setback lines in Old Town shall conform to setback lines of existing
adjacent buildings
 
(1986 Code, § 28.12.020) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974; Ord. 1109, passed - -;
Ord. 1293, passed - -1987; Ord. 18-0612-156, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 19-1112-
189, passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 20-1013-226, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 154.077 R-3 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions. 
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (2)   Rest homes;
      (3)   Modular homes;
      (4)   Mobile homes;
      (5)   Business and private offices;
      (6)   R-1 and R-2 uses;
      (7)   Home occupations; and
      (8)   Accessory structures.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Utility structures;
      (2)   Clubs or noncommercial type;
      (3)   Mobile home parks;
      (4)   Neighborhood shopping facilities; and
      (5)   Short term rentals.
   (C)   Requirements.
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Requirements
Lot area
   First unit        6,000 sq. ft.
   Each additional un2,000 sq. ft.
Lot width               50 ft.
Front setback           25 ft.*
Side yard total         15 ft. **
Interior minimum        5 ft.**
Corner side yard        15 ft.
Rear yard               7 ft.
Floor area
   First unit        600 sq. ft.
   Each additional un500 sq. ft.
Maximum Limitations
Height (stories)        4
Total lot coverage      35%
*   Setback lines in Old Town shall conform to setback lines of existing
adjacent buildings
**   Buildings 2.5 stories in height or less
 
(1986 Code, § 28.12.030) (Ord. 1012, passed - -; Ord. 1047, passed - -; Ord.
1048, passed - -; Ord. 1293, passed - -1987; Ord. 18-0612-156, passed 6-12-
2018; Ord. 19-1112-189, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 154.0771 RR DISTRICT.
   The basic provisions for an RR Rural Residential District are:
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Single family dwellings;
      (2)   Cultivation and growing crops, except medical marijuana
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Assistant living facilities;
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Parks;
      (5)   Accessory structures; and
      (6)   Home occupation.
   (C)   RR Rural Residential.
      (1)   Lot Size - three to five acres.
      (2)   Maximum density - one unit per lot.
      (3)   Maximum height - 40 feet.
      (4)   Maximum floor area - 1850 square feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot width - 350 feet.
      (6)   Front set back- 100 feet.
      (7)   Rear-set back - 50 feet.
      (8)   Side yard - 20 feet.
(Ord. 20-1027-231, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 154.078 B-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Neighborhood business;
      (2)   Service business; or
      (3)   Retail business.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Same as R-1 and R-2 Districts.
   (C)   Requirements.
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Requirements
Corner side yard   15 ft.
Front setback      25 ft.*
Interior minimum   10 ft.
Rear yard          20 ft.
Side yard total    20 ft.
Maximum Limitations
Height (stories)   2.5
Total lot coverage 40%
*   Setback lines in Old Town shall conform to setback lines of existing
adjacent buildings
 
(1986 Code, § 28.12.040)
§ 154.079 B-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Central business district;
      (2)   General commercial uses, shops and services;
      (3)   R-1 and R-2 District uses; and
      (4)   Assisted living facilities.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Auto service stations and repair garages;
      (2)   Off-site signs.
(1986 Code, § 28.12.050) (Ord. 1620, passed 12-28-2004; Ord.23-1010-344, passed
10-10-2023)
§ 154.080 B-3 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Highway commercial roadside uses for convenience of travelers;
      (2)   Drive-ins;
      (3)   Motels;
      (4)   Tourist homes;
      (5)   Eating establishments;
      (6)   Commercial recreation;
      (7)   R-1 and R-2 District uses;
      (8)   Auto sales;
      (9)   Garage and related business; and
      (10)   Box truck bodies and portable cargo containers, except as
prohibited in §
154.131.
      (11)   A cannabis business establishment, as that term is defined in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, within the following parameters:
         (a)   May only be located and operated in an area that is zoned as a
B-3 District and that is west of N.W./S.W. 7th Street; and
         (b)   May not be located and operated within 400 feet of the property
line of a pre- existing church, public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home, or a residential
care home (including, but not limited to a home for the aged, nursing home or
assisted living facility).
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Same as B-2 District;
      (2)   Automatic car washes;
      (3)   Minimum interior may be reduced to four feet;
      (4)   Total side yard to eight feet;
      (5)   Rear yard to conform to setback lines of adjacent buildings; and
      (6)   Offices and retail businesses.
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Requirements
Corner side yard   15 ft.
Front setback      25 ft.*
Interior minimum   8 ft.
Rear yard          15 ft.
Side yard total    18 ft.
Maximum Limitations
Height (stories)   2.5
Total lot coverage 50%
*   Setback lines in Old Town shall conform to setback lines of existing
adjacent buildings
 
(1986 Code, § 28.12.060) (Ord. 1056, passed - -; Ord. 1426, passed - - ; Ord.
21-0914-265, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 154.081 I DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Research facilities;
      (2)   Office buildings;
      (3)   Interior storage facilities;
      (4)   Electronic manufacturing;
      (5)   Assembly plants;
      (6)   Light manufacturing;
      (7)   Warehouses;
      (8)   Small repair shops;
      (9)   Fertilizer and feed stores;
      (10)   Grain elevators;
      (11)   Open storage of vehicles and non-junk materials when adequately
screened;
      (12)   Cold storage plants;
      (13)   On-site signs;
      (14)   Heavy manufacturing;
      (15)   Oil field equipment storage and repair;
      (16)   On- and off-site signs;
      (17)   Outdoor advertising; and
      (18)   Box truck bodies and portable cargo containers, except as
prohibited in §
154.131.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Junk or salvage yards; and
      (2)   Paint or fertilizer manufacture and other uses inclined to be
obnoxious due to excessive noise, odor, heat or safety hazard.
(1986 Code, § 28.12.070)
§ 154.082 P DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions:
      (1)   Public use–parks;
      (2)   Recreation uses;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Hospitals;
      (5)   Library;
      (6)   Cemetery;
      (7)   Fairgrounds;
      (8)   Public offices and other public buildings of a non-industry nature;
      (9)   Airport and airplane related businesses;
      (10)   Medical office buildings; and
      (11)   Box truck bodies and portable cargo containers, except as
prohibited §
154.131.
(1986 Code, § 28.12.080) (Ord. 1426, passed - -; Ord. 1489, passed - -1997)
§ 154.083 A DISTRICT.
   (A)   Basic provisions.
      (1)   Cultivation and growing crops;
      (2)   Orchards and nurseries;
      (3)   Dairy farming;
      (4)   Keeping or raising animals for sale;
      (5)   Residences and accessory buildings, necessary to the permitted use;
      (6)   Recreational and public uses; and
      (7)   Box truck bodies and portable cargo containers, except as
prohibited in §
154.131.
   (B)   Special exceptions that may be granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.  
      (1)   Commercial feed lots; and
      (2)   Facilities for slaughtering, selling and processing animals.
   (C)   Lot area. One acre (43,560 square feet).
(1986 Code, § 28.12.090)
§ 154.084 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following are additional basic provisions that apply to §§
154.075 through
154.083.
   (A)   No off-site or on-site signs, other than traffic signs, and other than
home occupation signs, shall be permitted in R-1 and R-2 Districts. No signs
other than on-site signs, not to exceed three units or 45 square feet per
establishment, shall be permitted in B-1 and B-3 Districts.
   (B)   Any use adjacent to an R-1 or R-2 District shall not create excessive
noise, odor, heat or light.
(1986 Code, § 28.12.100) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.095 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Exceptions to the basic provisions of the zoning district schedule shall be
permitted only after the issuance of a special exception permit. An application
for a special exception permit shall be filed with the Zoning Officer on a form
furnished for that purpose. The application shall be accompanied by plans and
other data as prescribed on the form together with the fee as set forth in §
154.195.
(1986 Code, § 28.14.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.096 SPECIAL USE PERMIT; PUBLICATION.
   A notice of the time and place of a public hearing before the Zoning Board
of Appeals on each application for a special exception permit shall be
published at least once, not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the
public hearing, in one or more newspapers published in the city. The notice
shall contain the particular location for which the special exception permit is
requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed special exception
consists.
(1986 Code, § 28.14.015)
§ 154.097 USE PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   Each application for a special exception permit shall be reviewed by the
Zoning Board of Appeals and approved by the concurring vote of four members
before a use permit may be issued.
(1986 Code, § 28.14.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.098 GRANTING OR DENYING APPLICATION.
    The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant or deny any application for a special
exception permit following the policy hereafter set forth. No special exception
permit shall be granted unless the Zoning Board of Appeals shall find:
   (A)   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of the environment or of other property in the immediate vicinity, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
neighborhood;
   (B)   The proposed development will not increase local or state expenditures
in relation to costs of servicing or maintaining neighborhood properties;
   (C)   The establishment of the special exception will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
predominant in the area; and
   (D)   The location and character of the proposed development are considered
to be consistent with a desirable pattern of development for the locality in
general.
(1986 Code, § 28.14.030) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.099 REVERSAL OF DECISION OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   An applicant denied a permit may make application for a hearing before the
City Council. The City Council may reverse a decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals if the City Council deems the issuance of a permit is necessary for the
protection of the public interest.
(1986 Code, § 28.14.040) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 154.110 CONDITIONS FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
154.095 through
154.099, the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a special exception in an R-
2 District for the construction of new multi-family dwellings only upon the
conditions set forth below.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.010) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.111 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A written application for the special exception shall be filed with the
Zoning Board accompanied by the fee as is provided in §
154.195.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.020) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.112 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The application for special exception shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and shall be accompanied by detailed plans and specifications of the
multi-family dwelling to be constructed and if the special exception is
granted, the structure shall substantially conform with those plans and
specifications and no certificate of occupancy and compliance shall be issued
by the Zoning Officer unless the structure does substantially comply with the
plans and specifications.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.030) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.113 GRANTING OR DENYING APPLICATION.
    No special exception shall be granted unless the Zoning Board of Appeals
finds that the granting of a special exception will promote the public health,
safety and welfare of the neighborhood and the community and further finds as
follows:
   (A)   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of the environment or of other property in the immediate vicinity, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
neighborhood;
   (B)   The proposed development will not increase local or state expenditures
in relation to costs of servicing or maintaining neighborhood properties;
   (C)   The establishment of the special exception will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
predominant in the area; and
   (D)   The location and character of the proposed development are considered
to be consistent with a desirable pattern of development for the locality in
general.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.040) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.114 PRIOR NOTICE BY PUBLICATION.
   Upon the filing of an application for special exception, the Zoning Officer
shall cause to be published a notice at least 15 days prior to the hearing
thereon before the Zoning Board of Appeals, which notice shall be in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city and which notice shall give
the date, time and place of the hearing, the location, including lot number and
street address where the special exception is sought, a general description of
the multi-family dwelling to be constructed and which notice shall state that
any person having objections to the granting of the special exception may file
the same with the Zoning Officer prior to the hearing.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.050) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.115 REAR YARD; TOTAL LOT COVERAGE; LOT AREA REDUCTION.
   If requested by the applicant, the Zoning Board of Appeals, upon approval of
the special exception, may also reduce the rear yard to ten feet and increase
the maximum lot coverage to 40%. If the proposed multi-family dwelling is to be
a two-story construction, then the minimum requirements for lot area may be
divided by two.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.060) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.116 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   No special exception shall be granted unless there is to be at least one
off-street parking space for each family unit.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.070) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.117 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; ACTION.
   (A)   If at the hearing the Zoning Board of Appeals by a vote of four or
more members approves the application, then the approval shall be announced;
however, a permit shall not be issued by the Zoning Officer until at least ten
days subsequent to the approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   If any person who would be adversely affected by the granting of a
special exception shall file with the City Clerk written objections thereto
within ten days, then the special exception shall not be granted until approved
by the City Council.
   (C)   If no objections are filed within ten days, then the permit shall be
issued.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.080) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.118 SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR CHANGE IN USE OR ALTERATION OF STRUCTURE.
   (A)   No land or structure for which a special exception is granted as
herein provided shall be changed in use and no structure shall be erected,
altered or moved until the change, erection, alteration or move has been
authorized by special exception granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The procedure for obtaining a special exception for the change,
erection, alteration or move shall be the same as herein set forth.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.090) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
§ 154.119 REVERSAL OF DECISION OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   An applicant denied a permit may make application for a hearing before the
City Council. The City Council may reverse the decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals if the City Council deems the issuance of a permit necessary for the
protection of the public interest.
(1986 Code, § 28.15.100) (Ord. 992, passed 1-8-1974)
TRUCK BODIES AND PORTABLE CARGO CONTAINERS
§ 154.130 PROHIBITION OF PLACEMENT IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Placement, parking and/or storage of box truck bodies removed from the
truck chassis is hereby prohibited in R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1 and B-2 Districts,
except as otherwise permitted in this
Chapter 154.
   (B)   The placement and/or use of any portable cargo container (hereinafter
referred to herein as a “container” or “containers”) as an accessory building,
storage building, other building, or other similar purpose is prohibited within
the zoning jurisdiction of the City of Fairfield, except as provided for below:
      (1)   A container is permitted as an accessory building in the R-1, R-
2 and R-3 Districts provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The container may not be used as a residence of any kind.
         (b)   The container shall be placed on concrete or asphalt, but not on
any parking area or parking lot.
         (c)   The container shall be painted in one solid monochromatic color,
so as to blend in with the building to which it is an accessory and so that
there is no visible writing. No signage or advertising shall be on the
container; and the container shall otherwise be so maintained as described in
this division (B) (1)(c) for as long as it remains on the property. The
container shall be painted within 30 days of it being placed on the owner’s
property. If bad weather prevents the container from being painted, the owner
may request to extend the 30-day painting deadline. The request must be made in
writing and must state the reason for the request. The written request must be
delivered to the Building and Zoning Officer. The written request must first be
made within the initial 30-day painting deadline. The Building and Zoning
Officer may extend the 30-day painting deadline if he/she determines that bad
weather is preventing the painting. Extensions may be granted for no more than
60 additional days. The owner may
appeal the Building and Zoning Officer's decision to the City Council at its
next available meeting.
         (d)   The container shall be placed on the property so as to minimize
the visibility of the container from the road and other residences.
         (e)   The container may not be placed in a front yard or a side yard.
         (f)   The container shall comply with all setback requirements.
         (g)   The container shall comply with all applicable laws,
regulations, and codes.
         (h)   The container may be installed only after a building permit has
been issued by the city.
         (i)   The total lot coverage of all structures combined must not
exceed 30% of the lot coverage or have a total lot coverage of 320 square feet,
whichever is less.
         (j)   The container shall be placed a minimum of seven feet (7'0")
from any residential or accessory structures on the property.
         (k)   The container shall not be placed within the limits of a
floodplain.
         (l)   The container shall be supported to prevent shifting of the
structure.
         (m)   The container shall not be erected and kept on-end vertically.
         (n)   The container shall not be supplied with or connected to water,
sewer, gas or electric service.
         (o)   The container shall not contain any toxic or hazardous material.
         (p)   The container may be subject to an annual inspection, of the
interior and exterior of the container, by a Building Inspector, licensed by
the State of Illinois, if the same is deemed necessaty by the Mayor and/or City
Council to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section and with the
Code of Fairfield. Any inspection fees or costs incurred shall be paid by the
property owner.
         (q)   A container that is damaged and requiring more than $500 in
repairs shall not be permitted to be installed.
         (r)   The container shall not be placed within off-street parking,
loading, or landscaping areas nor impede access to public right-of ways, public
utility or drainage easements, adjacent structures, or any building.
      (2)   A container is permitted as a non-occupied temporary or seasonal
use on any property provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The container is being used for temporary use and located on
private property for moving items in or out of a building for a period of time
not to exceed 14 days.
         (b)   The container is being used for temporary storage on private
property during active and actual construction that is subject to and
authorized by a city building permit.
         (c)   The container is being used for temporary storage within project
limits during an authorized/approved public infrastructure project.
         (d)   The container shall be placed on concrete or asphalt.
         (e)   The container shall comply with all setback requirements.
         (f)   The container shall comply with all applicable laws,
regulations, and codes.
         (g)   The container shall not be placed within loading, or landscaping
areas nor impede access to public right-of ways, public utility or drainage
easements, adjacent structures, or any building.
      (3)   When a container is altered by cutting, removing or replacing
structural elements, the following requirements must be met:
         (a)   If a steel frame is replaced, a similar or higher grade of steel
shall be used as the replacement frame.
         (b)   When openings are made in container walls for doors, windows and
other openings, the opening mnst be framed with steel elements resembling or
exceeding elements in the original frame and complying with the applicable ASTM
steel standards.
      (4)   Non-conforming portable cargo container, truck body or semitrailer.
         (a)   An existing nonconforming portable cargo container, truck body
or semitrailer, which fails to comply with this section shall be brought into
conformity or removed from the property, within six months of the passage of
Ordinance 22-1108-317.
         (b)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with an order of the City of Fairfield to bring into conformity or
remove a portable cargo container, truck body, or semitrailer shall be in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 10-1228-18, passed 12-28-2010; Ord. 22-1108-317, passed 11-8-2022; Ord.
23-0822-340, passed 8-22-2023) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.130.1 REGULATION OF PORTABLE CARGO CONTAINERS IN A B-1 AND B-2 DISTRICT.
   Placement, parking and/or storage of box truck bodies removed from the truck
chassis and portable cargo containers removed from the trailer used to
transport the portable cargo container within the city limits is hereby
prohibited in a B-l and B-2 District, unless the owner has received a building
permit approved by the Building and Zoning Officer. No one shall use a box
truck body and/or portable cargo container except as allowed by the building
permit. Any use in violation of this section is prohibited and is a violation
of this section.
(Ord. 23-0822-340, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 154.130.2 STANDARDS FOR A BUILDING PERMIT IN A B-1 AND B-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term CONTAINERS refers to both a
portable cargo container and a truck body or truck bodies.
   (B)   A building permit for placement of a container shall not be granted,
by the Building and Zoning Officer, unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The owner applies in writing for a building permit on forms
provided by the Building and Zoning Officer and pays the requisite permit fee
to the Building and Zoning Officer. Permit fees are non-refundable.
      (2)   The container may not be used as a residence of any kind.
      (3)   The container shall be placed on concrete or asphalt.
      (4)   The container shall be painted in one solid monochromatic color, so
as to blend in with the building to which it is an accessory and so that there
is no visible writing, except that a business may have their business name or
logo written on the side of the container. No other signage or advertising
shall be on the container; and the container shall otherwise be so maintained
as described in this division (4) for as long as it remains on the property.
The container shall be painted within 30 days of it being placed on the owner's
property,
      (5)   The container shall be placed on the property so as to minimize the
visibility of the container from the road and other residences.
      (6) The container shall comply with all setback requirements.
      (7)   The container shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations,
and codes.
      (8)   The container may be installed only after a building permit has
been issued by the city.
      (9)   The total lot coverage of all containers must not exceed 30% of the
total lot coverage.
         (10)   The container shall be placed a minimum of seven feet from any
neighboring residential or accessory structures on the property.
         (11)   The container shall not be placed within the limits of a
floodplain.
         (12)   The container shall be supported to prevent shifting of the
structure.
         (13)   The container shall not be placed and kept on-end vertically.
         (14)   The container shall not be supplied with or connected to water,
sewer, gas or electric service.
         (15)   The container shall not contain any toxic or hazardous
material, unless otherwise permitted by law.
         (16)   The container may be subject to an annual inspection, of the
interior and exterior of the container, by a Building Inspector, licensed by
the State of Illinois, if the same is deemed necessary by the Mayor and/or City
Council to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section and with the
Code of Fairfield. Any inspection fees or costs incurred shall be paid by the
property owner.
         (17)   A container that is damaged and requiring more than $500 in
repairs shall not be permitted to be kept or installed.
         (18)   The container shall not be placed within off-street parking or
landscaping areas nor impede access to public right-of ways, public utility or
drainage easements, adjacent structures, or any building.
(Ord. 23-0822-340, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 154.130.3 DEVIATIONS FROM A BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term CONTAINERS
refers to both a portable cargo container and a truck body or truck bodies.
   (B)   Deviations. The owner of the container shall not alter it by cutting,
removing or replacing the container’s structural elements. In the event the
owner of the container deviates from or exceeds the authority to build, as set
forth in the applicable building permit, the building permit shall be revoked
and the owner must remove the container from its location and from the
corporate limits of the City of Fairfield. If the owner violates the limits and
specifications in the building permit, the Building and Zoning Officer shall
give the owner of the container notice of the violation and a date to appeal
the notice of the violation. Any appeal shall be heard by the City Council at
its next available meeting. This division applies to both the owner and anyone
acting on his/her behalf.
   (C)   Existing non-conforming portable cargo container, truck body or
semitrailer. An existing nonconforming portable cargo container, truck body or
semitrailer, which fails to comply with this section shall be brought into
conformity or removed from the property, within six months of the passage of
Ordinance 23-0822-340.
   (D)   Violation. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with a notice and/or order of the City of Fairfield to bring
into conformity or remove a portable cargo container, truck body, or
semitrailer shall be in violation of this chapter and section. Whoever commits
such violation shall be fined not less than $75 and not more than $750 for each
and every violation thereof, and every day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation and offense.
(Ord. 23-0822-340, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 154.131 PROHIBITION OF PLACEMENT CLOSE TO CERTAIN STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   Placement parking and/or storage of box truck bodies removed from the
truck chassis and portable cargo containers removed from the trailer used to
transport the cargo container within the city limits is hereby prohibited at
any location which is within 250 feet of the right-of-way of:
      (1)   Main Street;
      (2)   Delaware Street;
      (3)   Illinois Route 15; and
      (4)   U.S. Route 45.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply where the Owner obtains permission
from the City Council permitting the placement of the box truck bodies removed
from the truck chassis or the portable car o container at one or more of the
locations listed in (A)(1) through (A)(4) above.
(Ord. 10-1228-18, passed 12-28-2010; Ord. 23-0822-340, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 154.132 REMEDIES AVAILABLE.
   This subchapter shall be a basis for the city to obtain a court order in the
County Circuit Court ordering removal of any unit placed within the city limits
which violates this subchapter, and shall further be the basis for the owner
and/or lessee of the offending unit being required to pay all attorney’s fees
and court costs incurred by the city in enforcing this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-1228-18, passed 12-28-2010)
§ 154.133 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Placement, parking, moving and/or storage of box truck bodies removed from
the truck chassis, and portable cargo containers removed from the trailer used
to transport the cargo container within the city limits is hereby prohibited
until and unless the owner of the unit obtains a building permit from the
Zoning Officer of the city.
(Ord. 10-1228-18, passed 12-28-2010)
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.145 APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER.
   This chapter shall be enforced by a qualified Building and Zoning Officer,
appointed by the City Council. The salary of the Zoning Officer is fixed at
$110 bi-weekly.
(1986 Code, § 28.16.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972; Ord. 1406, passed - -
1993)
§ 154.146 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER.
   No land or structure shall be changed in use and no structure shall be
erected, altered or moved until the Zoning Officer has issued a building permit
certifying that the plans and intended use of land, buildings and structures
are in conformity with this chapter. No land or structure hereafter erected,
moved or altered in its use shall be used until the Zoning Officer shall have
issued a certificate of occupancy and compliance stating that the land or
structure is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A
certificate of occupancy and compliance shall be obtained annually for all home
occupations.
(1986 Code, § 28.16.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.147 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In case any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Officer or any owner or tenant
of real property in the same contiguous zoning district as the building or
structure in question, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance or use;
      (2)   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land;
      (3)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
the premises; or
      (4)   To restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (B)   When any action is instituted by an owner or tenant, notice of the
action shall be served upon the municipality at the same time suit is begun, by
serving a copy of the complaint on the Mayor.
   (C)   No action may be maintained until notice has been given.
(1986 Code, § 28.16.030) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.160 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There shall be a Zoning Board of Appeals consisting of seven members.
   (B)   The members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Council for terms to be established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.161 WHO MAY MAKE AN APPEAL.
   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.020) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.162 HEARING; NOTIFICATION; REPRESENTATION.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
an appeal, giving public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties
in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any
party may appear in person, or by agent or by attorney.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.030) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.163 POWERS.
   (A)   The powers of the Zoning Board of Appeals are:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer;
      (2)   To hear and decide on appeals, special exceptions, variances and
all other matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter; and
      (3)   In passing upon variances, the enforcement officer shall be present
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter to vary or modify the
application of any of the regulations or provisions of this chapter relating to
the use, construction or alteration of buildings or structure or the use of
land so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may reverse or
affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination appealed from and may make the order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.040) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.164 CONCURRING VOTE.
   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in this
chapter, or to recommend any variation or modification in this chapter to the
corporate authorities.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.050) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.165 RULES AND CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct
of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at other times as the Board
may determine.
   (B)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be
open to the public.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.060) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.166 RECORD OF OFFICIAL ACTS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote
indicating that fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the Board.
(1986 Code, § 28.18.070) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.180 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council may, from time to time, on its own motion or on petition,
amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal by ordinance the boundaries of
districts of regulations or restrictions established.
(1986 Code, § 28.22.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972)
§ 154.181 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   No change in the boundaries of districts or regulations or
restrictions established under this chapter shall be made without a public
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Notice shall be given of the time and place of the public hearing, not
more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the public hearing by publishing a
notice thereof at least once in one or more newspapers published in the city.
(1986 Code, § 28.22.015)
§ 154.182 PASSAGE OF AMENDMENT.
   Notice shall be given of the time and place of the City Council meeting
scheduled to consider an ordinance changing the boundaries of districts or
regulations or restrictions established under this chapter, not more than 30
nor less than 15 days before the City Council meeting by publishing a notice
thereof at least once in one or more newspapers published in the city. In case
of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the districts or
regulations or restrictions established under this zoning chapter, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the City Clerk, the proposed
amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of the
Aldermen of the city then holding office. In these cases, a copy of the written
protest shall be served by the protester or protesters on the applicant for the
proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant’s attorney, if any, by
certified mail at the address of the applicant and attorney shown in the
application for the proposed amendment.
(1986 Code, § 28.22.020)
FEES
§ 154.195 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT FEE.
   The City Council establishes a $50 fee for a special exception permit as
required by this chapter. No special exception permit shall be issued until the
application fee has been paid in full to the City Clerk, nor shall any action
be taken on proceedings before the Zoning Board of Appeals until the
application fee has been paid in full.
(1986 Code, § 28.24.010) (Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1972; Ord. 1408, passed - -
1993)
§ 154.196 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The City Council establishes the following fee for a building permit
required by this chapter:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for a structure requiring the building permit
with an estimated construction cost of $100,000 or more; or
      (2)   Ten dollars for any other use or structure requiring a building
permit.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued until the application fee has been
paid in full to the City Clerk, nor any action taken on proceedings before the
Zoning Board of Appeals until the application fee has been paid in full.
(1986 Code, § 28.24.020) (Ord. 1408, passed - -1993)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-0512-211, passed 5-12-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
      
VIII.   PLATS
      
IX.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
X.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
XI.   VACATIONS
      
XII.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1579  8-12-  Authorizing purchase of electric power pursuant to a long-term power sales
      2003   contract with Illinois Municipal Electric Agency
1582  10-28- Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
      2003
1588  1-13-  Authorizing execution of the second addendum to power sales contract between
      2004   Illinois Municipal Electric Agency and the city
1590  2-10-  Authorizing a mutual aid box alarm system agreement
      2004
1614  11-9-  Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
      2004
1615  11-9-  Authorizing a water purchase contract between the city and Boyleston Waterworks
      2004   Corporation
1632  10-25- Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
      2005
1640  5-23-  Authorizing execution of supplements 4 and 5 to the Illinois Public Energy
      2006   Agency agreement
1643  6-13-  Authorizing participation in the signature program and execution of guardian
      2006   member agenda to the IPEA signature guardian services agreement
1649  11-14- Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
      2006
             Approving the withdrawal of certain municipalities from membership in the
1650  11-28- Illinois Municipal Electric Agency and authorizing the execution of a
      2006   supplement to the agency agreement establishing the Illinois Municipal Electric
             Agency
             Authorizing the execution of the second member addendum and guaranty between
1655  3-27-  the city and the Illinois Public Energy Agency and Proliance Energy, LLC and
      2007   authorizing execution of a natural gas all-requirements sales agreement with
             the Illinois Public Energy Agency
      3-27-  Approving the admission of the Village of Greenup as new member of the Illinois
1656  2007   Public Energy Agency and to authorize execution of supplement to the agency
             agreement establishing the Illinois Public Energy Agency
      6-12-  Approving the admission of the Village of Bethany as new member of the Illinois
1660  2007   Public Energy Agency and to authorize execution of supplement to the agency
             agreement establishing the Illinois Public Energy Agency
      9-11-  Approving the admission of the Village of Morton as new member of the Illinois
1665  2007   Public Energy Agency and to authorize execution of supplement to the agency
             agreement establishing the Illinois Public Energy Agency
1667  9-26-  Authorizing the execution of a long- term gas contract with the Illinois Public
      2007   Energy Agency
      10-9-  Approving the admission of the City of Flora as new member of the Illinois
1669  2007   Public Energy Agency and to authorize execution of supplement to the agency
             agreement establishing the Illinois Public Energy Agency
1671  11-13- Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
      2007
08-   3-25-  Authorizing the execution of the first amendment of the IPEA sales contract
0325- 2008   with the Illinois Public Energy Agency
01
08-   5-13-  Authorizing the execution of the revised second member addendum between the
0513- 2008   city and the Illinois Public Energy Agency and Proliance Energy, LLC
01
08-   10-28- Authorizing the execution of the second amendment to IPEA sales contract with
1028- 2008   the Illinois Public Energy Agency
08
08-   10-28-
1028- 2008   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
09
09-   3-24-  Approving 2009 service area agreement with the city and Wayne-White Counties
0324- 2009   Electric Cooperative
05
09-   3-10-  Approving the admission of the Village of Riverton as a member of the Illinois
0310- 2009   Municipal Electric Agency
0
09-   8-25-  Authorizing the execution and implementation of a natural gas all- requirements
0825- 2009   sales agreement with the Illinois Public Energy Agency
11
09-   11-10-
1110- 2009   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
16
10-   12-14-
1214- 2010   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
15
11-   3-8-
0308- 2011   Approving a right-of- way license agreement with Delta Communications, LLC
22
11-   12-13-
1213- 2011   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
30
12-   1-10-  Authorizing public water supply loan program agreement for the city to borrow
0110- 2012   funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program
31
12-   11-27-
1127- 2012   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
45
13-   11-12-
1112- 2013   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
61
14-   11-10-
1110- 2014   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
80
14-   11-10-
1110- 2014   Authorizing addendum to mutual aid box alarm system agreement
82
             Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Peoples National
15-   7-14-  Bank, NA, Wayne County Well Surveys, Inc., Martin L. and Shirley A. Mac David,
0714- 2015   Edwin R. and Lucy A. Potts, Joe Harrison, Doug A. and Dana Wilson, Gordon M.
94           and Lavern D. Toombs, Demontester, Inc., David L. and Robyn L. Ewing, Beck 3,
             LLC, and R. Todd and Mary Jon Lehr
15-   9-8-   Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Richard J. Simpson
0908- 2015   and Barbara J. Simpson, Hoopers Properties, LLC., and Vernon Kimbrell and Alice
96           Kimbrell
15-   10-13- Approving TIF redevelopment between the city and The Fairfield Community
1013- 2015   Industrial Trust
97
11-   11-10- Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Cathy Lynn Lemond,
1110- 2015   Trustee of the Cathy Lynn Lemond Trust DBA Lemond’s Chevrolet and Chrysler
98           Dealership
15-   11-10-
1110- 2015   Authorizing execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
99
15-   11-15- Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Kieffer
1124- 2015   Development, LLC
101
16-   2-23-  Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Bullard’s Farm
0223- 2016   Market and Bakery, LLC
105
             Approving TIF redevelopment agreements between the city and Joe’s Body Shop,
16-   5-10-  Inc., Mark D. Owen and Patti S. Owen D/B/A Patti’s Shear Magic Nail and Hair
0510- 2016   Salon, Serendipity Card and Gift, LLC, Hoffee Motor Sales, Inc., Glen A. Borah
107          D/B/A Main Street Gym, F&W Property, LLC D/B/A Community Care Systems, Inc.,
             Jerry D. Kissner, and Mitchell Malone
16-   11-8-
1108- 2016   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
117
17-   3-28-  Authorizing the execution and implementation of an amendment to the natural gas
0328- 2017   all- requirements sales agreement with the Illinois Public Energy Agency
122
17-   11-14-
114-  2017   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
140
18-   2-27-  Approving an engagement agreement with Daniel P. Schuering, authorizing
0227- 2018   execution thereof and other actions in connection therewith
149
18-   4-10-
0410- 2018   Authorizing oil and gas lease
151
18-   11-13-
1113- 2018   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
163
19-   8-27-  Approving redevelopment project and grant agreement for Fairfield Memorial
0827- 2019   Hospital
182
19-   10-22-
1022- 2019   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
187
20-   1-14-  Amending a redevelopment agreement between the city and Bullards’s Farm Market
0114- 2020   and Bakery, LLC
192
20-   3-10-  Approval of TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and Gifford Properties
0310- 2020   LLC
200
20-   3-10-
0310- 2020   Approval of TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and Jennifer Beck
201
20-   3-10-
0310- 2020   Approval of TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and Tina Lee Turner
202
20-   3-10-
0310- 2020   Authorizing contract with B&T Drainage in an amount not to exceed $11,000
203
20-   4-14-
0414- 2020   Repealing Ord. 19-0813-180 and reaffirming Ords. 14-0624-72 and 15-0210-89
206
20-   4-14-  Repealing Ord. 20-0114-192 and approving an addendum to the redevelopment
0414- 2020   agreement by and between the city and Bullard’s Farm Market and Bakery
207
20-   4-28-  Approval of TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and XYZO Inc. d/b/
0428- 2020   a Your Flower Shop
210
20-   5-26-  Approval of TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and McBride Asset
0526- 2020   Management, LLC
213
20-   10-13-
1013- 2020   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement
230
20-   11-10- Approving the TIF redevelopment agreement between the city and Bullard’s Farm
1110- 2020   Market and Bakery, LLC
237
21-   3-9-
0309- 2021   Authorizing an electric service agreement
247
21-   4-27-  Approving the 2021 amendment to the TIF Redevelopment Plan and project for
0427- 2021   Redevelopment Project Area No. 1
254
21-   7-27-  Approving TIF Redevelopment Agreements between the city and April Smith and
0727- 2021   Alyssa Short, Monte and Denise Smith
260
21-   10-26-
1026- 2021   Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution Agreement
268
21-   11-23- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and McBride Asset
1123- 2021   Management, LLC
270
21-   11-23- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Legg’s
1123- 2021   Manufacturing Company
271
21-   12-14- Approving a TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Illinois Eastern
1214- 2021   Community College
273
22-   3-8-
0308- 2022   Approving two airport lease agreements
278
22-   6-28-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Feed My Sheep Soup
0628- 2022   Kitchen
289
22-   8-9-
0809- 2022   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and David Savage
294
22-   9-13-
0913- 2022   Authorizing Redevelopment Project (Water Tower)
301
22-   9-13-
0913- 2022   Authorizing modification of agreement with Sunrise Sanitation
304
22-   9-27-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and the Farmer’s
0927- 2022   Daughter Formals, LLC
305
22-   9-27-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Jessica McCleary
0927- 2022   DBA Country Road Realty
306
22-   9-27-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Andrew Gifford DBA
0927- 2022   Gifford Properties, LLC
307
22-   10-11- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and B-Way Design and
1011- 2022   Decorating, LLC
311
22-   10-11- Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution Agreement
1011- 2022   for the period beginning 1-1- 2023 and ending 1-1- 2024
312
23-   1-24-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Edwards County
0124- 2023   Council on Aging
322
23-   2-14-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and the New Wayne
0214- 2023   County Agricultural Fair
323
23-   4-25-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Blessed Blooms
0425- 2023   Flower Farm LLC
327
23-   5-9-   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Feed My Sheep Soup
0509- 2023   Kitchen
330
23-   5-9-
0509- 2023   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Doug Wilson
331
23-   8-8-   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Raylen James
0808- 2023   Marketing, LLC
338
23-   10-10- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Gifford
1010- 2023   Properties, LLC
341
23-   10-10- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Brake Enterprises,
1010- 2023   LLC
342
23-   10-10- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and 618 Sports Cards,
1010- 2023   LLC
343
23-   10-24-
1024- 2023   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Mindy Isaacs
347
23-   10-24-
1024- 2023   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Mid East Supply
348
23-   11-14- Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum Contribution Agreement
1114- 2023   for the period beginning 1-1- 2024 and ending 1-1- 2025
349
23-   11-28- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Jen Vaughan d/b/
1128- 2023   a No Tan Lines
350
23-   11-28- Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and New Gen Concrete,
1128- 2023   LLC
351
23-   1-9-   Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Jim McCleary and
0109- 2024   Cindy McCleary
354
24-   2-13-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and Richard Hooper and
0213- 2024   Amy Hooper
356
24-   3-26-  Approval of TIF Redevelopment Agreement between the city and The New Wayne
0326- 2024   County Agricultural Fair
361
            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Authorizing execution for the development of a Walmart
1591        3-9-2004    Supercenter on the Fairfield Community High School
                        District No. 225/Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. property
                        Annexing certain territory to the city (Fairfield
1592        3-9-2004    Community High School District No. 225/Wal-Mart Stores,
                        Inc. property)
1593        3-9-2004    Annexing certain territory to the city (C & R Anderson,
                        Inc. property)
1597        4-13-2004   Authorizing the execution of an addendum to annexation
                        agreement for the development of a Walmart Supercenter
1598        4-13-2004   Annexing certain territory to the city (George W.
                        Xanders, Jr. and Knova L. Xanders property)
1599        4-13-2004   Annexing certain territory to the city (Fairfield Park
                        District Broadway Street property)
1634        11-22-2005  Annexing certain territory to the city (John Means
                        property)
                        Annexing certain territory to the city (J. Conrad Allen
1641        5-23-2006   and Betty Lou Allen property; Edward Hampton Phillips,
                        Eleanor K. Dulany and Everett Dulany property)
                        Supplementing and creating an addendum to an ordinance
1648        10-24-2006  annexing certain territory to the city (John Means
                        property)
1661        6-26-2007   Annexing certain territory to the city (C & R Anderson,
                        Inc. property)
1662        6-26-2007   Annexing certain territory to the city (John Means
                        property)
08-0708-03  7-8-2008    Annexing certain territory to the city (Garrison-Jones
                        & Sons Machine Works, Inc.)
12-0522-37  5-22-2012   Annexing certain territory to the city (Clay City
                        Banking Corporation property and Pearce Trust property)
5-1208-102  12-8-2015   Annexing certain territory to the city (Fairfield
                        Communications, LLC)
17-0425-125 4-25-2017   Annexing certain territory to the city (William C.
                        Rogers and DiElle N. Rogers)
17-1226-143 12-26-2017  Annexing certain territory to the city (David Love
                        Property)
20-0211-197 2-11-2020   Annexing certain territory to the city (1939 West
                        Delaware Street)
20-0428-209 4-28-2020   Annexing certain territory to the city (2555 West Main
                        Street)
20-1110-235 11-10-2020  Annexing certain territory to the city (County Road
                        1725 East)
20-1110-236 11-10-2020  Annexing certain territory to the city (1321 West Main
                        Street) and approving an annexation agreement
                       
 
TABLE III: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1580        12-11-2003  Authorizing and providing for the issuance of not to
                        exceed $10,000,000 electric system revenue bond
                        Authorizing the issuance of up to $6,000,000 waterworks
1647        9-26-2006   and sewerage revenue bonds and alternate revenue source
                        bonds
                        Authorizing the issuance of up to $1,975,000 waterworks
1666        9-11-2007   and sewerage revenue bonds and alternate revenue source
                        bonds
08-0122-01  1-22-2008   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation
                        waterworks and sewerage bonds, Series 2008
14-1110-81  11-10-2014  Authorizing the issuance of up to $9,500,000 electric
                        system alternate revenue source bonds
15-0113-88  1-13-2015   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation
                        refunding bonds (alternate revenue source), Series 2015
                        Authorizing the issuance of up to $2,500,000 waterworks
16-0524-110 5-24-2016   and sewerage revenue bonds and alternate revenue source
                        bonds
16-0726-116 7-26-2016   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation
                        refunding bonds (alternate revenue source), Series 2016
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1573        5-13-2003   Authorizing conveyance of easement for roadway purposes
1584        11-25-2003  Authorizing waterline easement to Boyleston Waterworks
                        Corporation
1602        6-22-2004   Authorizing waterline easement to Boyleston Waterworks
                        Corporation
21-0824-262 8-24-2021   Granting an easement (Homer J. Gardner and Kristina L.
                        Gardner)
                       
 
TABLE V: ENTERPRISE ZONES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Amending Ordinance 1346 as amended by Ordinance 1352
10-0112-01  1-12-2010   which established an enterprise zone encompassing
                        contiguous portions of the city and county
18-1127-165 11-27-2018  Establishing Hamilton-Wayne County Enterprise Zone
                       
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1605        8-10-2004   Authorizing assignment of water works equipment to
                        Jasper Water Works Corporation
09-0526-06  5-26-2009   Extending cable tv franchise with Telecommunications
                        Management, LLC for ten years
09-09-08-12 9-8-2009    Granting an electric franchise with Wayne-White
                        Counties Electric Cooperative
18-0814-160 8-14-2018   Setting cable television franchise fees with
                        Telecommunications Management LLC, dba NewWave
                       
 
TABLE VII: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date       Description
           Passed
                      Approving intergovernmental cooperation contract for
1585       11-25-2003 insurance and risk management services to be provided by
                      the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association
                      Joining as a member of the Illinois Public Energy Agency
1633       11-8-2005  and authorizing the execution of a supplement to the
                      agency agreement establishing the Illinois Public Energy
                      Agency
13-0108-47 1-8-2013   Authorizing natural gas all-requirement sales agreement
                      with the Illinois Public Energy Agency
17-0711-              Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League
133        7-11-2017  Risk Management Association and authorizing the execution
                      of an intergovernmental cooperation contract
17-1226-   12-26-2017 Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement regarding
145                   access to the Comptroller’s local debt recovery program
18-0123-   1-23-2018  Adopting a policy for collection process for closed
148                   (final) bills
18-0313-   3-13-2018  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for the Wayne
150                   County Drug Task Force
18-0508-   5-8-2018   Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the village
153                   of Wayne City, for storm sirens
 
TABLE VIII: PLATS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1604     8-10-2004   Approving plat of Walmart Subdivision
 
TABLE IX: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1581  10-14- Authorizing joint purchase of Brown Hotel real estate with the county
      2003
1652  11-26- Authorizing acquisition of Davis & Sons Oil Company, Inc. real estate
      2007
1670  11-26- Authorizing and directing exchange of the real estate of Davis & Sons Oil
      2007   Company, Inc.
10-   11-23-
1123- 2010   Approving conveyance of real estate to Fairfield Memorial Hospital
11
11-   3-22-  Authorizing sale of municipally-owned real estate located at 405 East
0322- 2011   Johnson Street and 110 West King Street
23
11-   5-24-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate located at 107 North
0524- 2011   Street
24
12-   5-8-   Authorizing the trade of certain municipally-owned farmland in the NW/C of
0508- 2012   the NW/4 of Section 7, T2S, R8E of the Third P.M. for Duckworth property
36           in the SW/4 of the NW/4 of Section 18, T3S, R8E of the Third P.M.
12-   6-26-  Authorizing lease/purchase agreement for 18.37 acres in the SW/4 of
0626- 2012   Section 7, T2S, R8E, of the 3rd P.M. to Melvin L. Clark, Jr. and Kristen
39           E. Clark
13-   2-26-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate located on Airport
0226- 2013   Road to Zurliene Enterprises, Inc.
48
13-   10-8-  Authorizing the trade of certain municipally-owned real estate for real
1008- 2013   property known as Lot 3 of the Fairfield Industrial Park West
59
13-   11-26- Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate consisting of 18.37
1126- 2013   acres of which 5.66 is in timber generally located west of U.S. Route 45
64           at the south city limits
14-   6-24-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate known as Lot 27
0624- 2014   (except .065 acres) in Fairfield Industrial Park and 503 West Main Street
73
14-   8-26-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate located at Route 15
0826- 2014   and 45 West and Williamson Drive
75
16-   6-14-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate located at East
0614- 2016   Court Street, Fairfield, IL 62837
111
18-   4-24-  Authorizing the announcement of the sale of real property from the city,
0424- 2018   known as Lots 151 and 114 in Rinard’s Third Addition, Lots 46 and 47 and
152          portions of Lot 45 of Rinard’s First Addition
18-   6-26-  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate described as Lots 46
0626- 2018   and 47 in Rinard’s First Addition
157
18-   11-27- Announcing sale of municipally-owned real estate in Rinard's Third
1127- 2018   Addition (Lots 114, 151); Rinard's First Addition (north half of Lot 45);
164          Rinard's Addition (south half of Lot 45)
19-   1-8-   Authorizing sale of municipally-owned real estate in Rinard's Third
0108- 2019   Addition (Lots 114, 151); Rinard's First Addition (north half of Lot 45);
169          Rinard's Addition (south half of Lot 45)
19-   5-14-  Announcing sale of municipally owned real estate described as Lot 114 in
0514- 2019   Rinard's Third Addition
171
19-   6-25-  Authorizing sale of municipally owned real estate described as Lot 114 in
0625- 2019   Rinard's Third Addition
175
20-   2-11-  Authorizing a commercial lease between the city and the Wayne County
0211- 2020   Historical Society as lessee for certain municipally owned real property
199
20-   9-8-   Authorizing the purchase of real property (approximately 4 acres from C &
0908- 2020   R Anderson, Inc.)
224
21-   5-25-
0525- 2021   Exchange of real estate between Melvin Clark and the city
255
21-   10-12- Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property (NW 7th Street and
1012- 2021   Water Street)
266
21-   10-12- Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property (1471 South First
1012- 2021   Street)
267
21-   12-14- Authorizing the purchase of real property (former mobile home park from MJ
1214- 2021   Associates Inc.)
274
22-   4-12-  Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property (multiple tracts - S.
0412- 2022   First Street/Route 45)
280
22-   5-24-  Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property described as Lot
0524- 2022   Number 3 in Robert W. Hayward’s Third Addition to the city
287
22-   7-26-
0726- 2022   Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property
292
22-   9-13-
0913- 2022   Transfer of real property between Fairfield Park District and the city
300
22-   10-11- Authorizing sale of municipally owned real property (Auxiliary Police
1011- 2022   Building) described as Lot Number 1 and the east half of Lot Number 2 in
309          Stewart’s Addition to the town, now city
23-   1-10-  Authorizing the purchase of real property (real property on Leininger
0110- 2023   Road)
321
23-   4-25-  Authorizing the purchase of real property (real property along Southwest
0425- 2023   Park)
328
24-   3-26-
0326- 2024   Authorizing the purchase of real property (Midwest Food Bank)
362
            
 
TABLE X: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
09-0310-02  3-10-2009   Establishing Tice Clevenger Drive
14-0909-78  9-9-2014    Renaming Southwest Park Road as Billy Bruce Land
17-0822-136 8-22-2017   Dedicating property for Southwest Tenth Street
 
TABLE XI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1578  8-12-  Vacating a portion of Industrial Drive in Fairfield Industrial Park Subdivision
      2003
1609  8-24-  Vacating an utility easement with Ora J. Hubble and Grace Hubble
      2004
1610  10-26- Vacating an utility easement in Deer Run Place Subdivision
      2004
1619  12-28- Vacating a part of an alley in A.H. Baker’s Addition
      2004
1638  2-28-  Vacating an alley in W. H. Robinson’s Addition
      2006
1664  8-14-  Vacating Lee easements
      2007
08-   2-26-  Vacating a portion of West Water Street and a portion of Northwest Eleventh
0226- 2008   Street
01
10-   12-14-
1214- 2010   Vacating an alley in Crome’s Subdivision and the J.G. George Addition
12
11-   10-25-
1025- 2011   Vacating an alley in Shaeffer’s Addition
28
17-   6-27-
0627- 2017   Vacating a public street known as West 8th Street
131
17-   11-28- Vacating a public alley located between Sailor’s Second Addition and Rinard’s
1128- 2017   Second Addition
141
20-   2-11-
0211- 2020   Vacating a public alley commonly known as 1208 W. Main
196
21-   6-22-
0622- 2021   Vacating one parking space on NE 2nd Street
258
            
 
TABLE XII: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1576  7-8-   Rezoning Lots 35, 36 and 37 in the Railroad Addition to B-3
      2003
      3-9-   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 36, lying east of the
1594  2004   easterly right-of-way of the B & O Railroad in Township 1 South, Range 7, east
             of the 3rd P.M. from P to R-1
1595  3-9-   Adopting the Comprehensive Plan update for the Northwest Fairfield Planning
      2004   Area
1623  3-22-  Approving plat of Fair Oaks Subdivision
      2005
1624  4-12-  Rezoning a part of Out Lot 5 lying west of the west line of Northeast Seventh
      2005   Street from R-2 to B-1
1629  6-28-  Rezoning the south 128 feet of Lots 20 and 21 in the North Fairfield Addition
      2005   from R-2 to R-3
1639  4-25-  Rezoning Elaine McKinney Tract and Donna Lee Millenbine and Dorothy Rosenbower
      2006   Tracts from R-1 to R-3
1642  6-13-  Rezoning Donald D. “Pete” Theberg tract from R-2 to R-3
      2006
1646  9-26-  Rezoning Fairfield Memorial Hospital from R-2 to P and from B-1 to P
      2006
1673  11-27- Rezoning Fairfield Memorial Hospital from R-2 to P
      2007
09-   6-9-
0609- 2009   Rezoning a part of Lot No. 12 in Turney’s Second Addition from R-2 to R-3
08
            
09-   6-23-
0623- 2009   Rezoning Lot Number 9 in Brach’s Industrial Park from B-3 to I
09
09-   10-13- Rezoning 1007 Harding Street from R-2 to P and rezoning 911 West Main Street
1013- 2009   from B-3 to B-2
14
10-   5-11-
0511- 2010   Rezoning Lawrence O’Leary Trust property from R-2 to B-1
03
10-   10-12-
1012- 2010   Rezoning 404 Northwest Sixth Street from R-2 to B-1
08
10-   10-12- Rezoning 205 Northwest Tenth Street, 204 Northwest Tenth Street, 301 Northwest
1012- 2010   Ninth Street, 200 Northwest Tenth Street, 112 Northwest Tenth Street and 110
09           Northwest Tenth Street from R-2 to P
10-   12-14- Rezoning Lots 54 and 55 in Rinard’s First Addition and Lot 30 in Rider
1214- 2010   Brother’s Second Addition from R-2 to R-3
13
10-   12-14- Rezoning the west 50 feet of the east 150 feet of Lot 46 in the Railroad
1214- 2010   Addition from R-2 to P
14
12-   11-27-
1127- 2012   Rezoning property commonly known as 708 Rosewood Lane from R-2 to R-3
44
13-   7-23-
0723- 2013   Rezoning property commonly known as Route 45 South from I to A
55
14-   11-25- Rezoning property commonly known as 409 Northwest Seventh Street and 702 and
1125- 2014   704 Mt. Vernon Road from R-2 to B-1
83
14-   12-9-
1209- 2014   Rezoning property commonly known as 1615 West Delaware from R-1 to R-2
85
16-   5-24-
0524- 2016   Rezoning property commonly known as Fairfield Memorial Hospital from R-2 to P
109
17-   4-25-
0425- 2017   Rezoning property commonly known as 105 NW 2nd Street from R-2 to B-2
126
17-   8-8-
0808- 2017   Rezoning property commonly known as 303 Southeast 8th Street from R-2 to R-3
135
17-   9-26-
0926- 2017   Rezoning property commonly known as 802 East King Street from R-2 to R-3
138
18-   1-23-  Rezoning property commonly known as 404, 406, 408 and 500 West Main Street from
0123- 2018   B-2 to B-3
147
18-   5-22-
0522- 2018   Rezoning property commonly known as 800 East Douglas Street from R-2 to R-3
154
18-   7-24-  Rezoning property commonly known as portions of Lot 59 in G.J. George’s
0724- 2018   Addition from R-2 to B-3
158
18-   12-11-
1211- 2018   Rezoning property commonly known as 801 Mt. Vernon Road from R-2 to B-1
167
18-   12-11-
1211- 2018   Rezoning property commonly known as 805 West Center Street from R-2 to R-3
168
20-   2-11-
0211- 2020   Rezoning property commonly known as 203 NW 10th Street from R-2 to P
198
20-   6-9-
0609- 2020   Rezoning property commonly known as 206 and 208 NW 7th Street from R-2 to B-1
214
20-   8-11-
0811- 2020   Rezoning property commonly known as 1301 West Delaware Street from R-2 to B-3
222
20-   10-27-
1027- 2020   Rezoning 8 tax parcels, commonly known as the Old Golf Course, to the RR zone
232
20-   11-10-
1110- 2020   Rezoning property commonly known as 1227 South 1st Street from B-3 to R-3
234
20-   11-10- Zoning certain property commonly known as County Road 1725 East as RR Rural
1110- 2020   Residential
235
21-   4-13-  Zoning certain property described as Lot Number 46 in Rinard’s First Addition
0413- 2021   from R-2 to B-1
248
21-   4-13-
0413- 2021   Rezoning certain property commonly known as 805 N. 1st Street from R-3 to P
249
21-   8-10-
0810- 2021   Rezoning certain property in the city from I to A
261
21-   9-14-  Rezoning certain property described as Lot No. 30 in Rider Brother’s Second
0914- 2021   Addition from R-2 to R-3
264
22-   9-13-  Rezoning certain properties owned by the Fairfield Memorial Hospital from R-
0913- 2022   2 to P
297
22-   9-13-
0913- 2022   Rezoning certain real estate owned by the city from R-3 to P
298
22-   10-11-
1011- 2022   Rezoning certain property from R-2 to B-3
310
23-   5-9-
0509- 2023   Rezoning certain property from R-2 to B-3
329
24-   3-26-
0326- 2024   Rezoning certain real estate from I to R-3
360
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1986 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                            Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                     10.04
Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.          37.45
Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq.      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 179, §§ 1 et seq.          39.20
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.        37.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15                 37.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65                 37.50
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 through 10-4037.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10                37.50
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5                 37.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5                 37.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)              37.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)              37.15
Ch. 7, Art. VI                          78.11
Ch. 35, Act 120                         36.031
Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.         36.101
Ch. 35, Act 636                         36.045
                                        10.02,
                                        36.015,
Ch. 65, Act 5                           36.030,
                                        54.087,
                                        55.176
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2                 10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                 10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1               10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-1 et seq.       40.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2                 40.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30             32.076
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22               36.120
Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 10, Div. 2.1        34.13,
                                        35.12
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13              95.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-1 et seq.     33.140 -
                                        33.142
Ch. 65, Act 5, Div. 11-139              54.001
Ch. 210, Act 120, §§ 1 through 7      152.38
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102               91.092
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(I)          91.092
Ch. 220, Act 50, § 1-14                52.140
Ch. 225, Act 115                        90.072
Ch. 225, Act 605                        90.085
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.         118.01,
                                        118.04
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.         120.10
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5                   120.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, Art. IV                 33.090,
                                        33.091
Ch. 410, Act 535, §§ 1 et seq.        32.060
Ch. 410, Act 535, § 25                 32.060
Ch. 430, Act 55, §§ 1 et seq.         35.15
Ch. 430, Act 55, § 3(c)                35.15
Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.          90.001
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 2.19b                90.074
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 15                   90.074
Ch. 625                                 95.15
Ch. 625, Act 5                          Ch. 70
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.      78.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-101.8              78.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153.1              78.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 through 4-21495.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101                74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303                74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-204               74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-500 through 11-50278.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501               74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503               74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506               74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5             74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 1426.1(d)        78.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 1426.1(f)        78.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 1426.1(g)        78.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 1426.1(h)        78.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709               78.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-101              120.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-72.01            91.092
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-2                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4.2               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4.3               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4.6               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16A-3                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-2                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-3                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1.1               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-2                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.5               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3               74.09
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1                 74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4                  74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5                  74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.1                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.2                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.3                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 8                  74.09
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 9                  74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401.1              74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401.5              74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 402                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 404                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 405                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 405.2              74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 406                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 406.2              74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 407                74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 407.1              74.09
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 407.2              74.09
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203                40.12
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.      40.11,
                                        40.12
Ch. 740, Act 174 § 15(a)               37.50
Ch. 740, Act 174 § 15(b)               37.50
Ch. 770, Act 50                         75.09
Ch. 775, Act 5 § 6-101                 37.50
Ch. 805, Act 5                          115.16
Ch. 820, Act 130, §§ 0.01 et seq.     37.36
Ch. 820, Act 192, § 15(p)              37.60
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1986 Code Section 2012 Code Section
2.02.010          30.01,
                  30.99
2.02.020          30.02,
                  30.99
2.02.030          30.03
2.02.040          30.04
2.02.050          30.05
2.02.060          30.06
2.03.010          50.01
2.03.020          50.02
2.03.030          50.03
2.04.010          37.01
2.04.020          37.02
2.06.010          31.01
2.06.020          31.02
2.06.030          31.03
2.06.040          31.04
2.06.050          31.05
2.06.060          31.06
2.06.070          31.07
2.06.080          31.08
2.06.090          31.09
2.06.100          31.10
2.06.110          31.11
2.06.120          31.12
2.06.130          31.13
2.06.140          31.14
2.06.150          31.15
2.06.160          31.16
2.06.170          31.17
2.06.180          31.18
2.08.010          32.020
2.08.015          32.001
2.08.016          32.002
2.08.020          32.021
2.08.030          32.022
2.08.040          32.023
2.08.050          32.024
2.08.060          32.025
2.08.070          32.026
2.08.080          32.027
2.08.090          32.028
2.08.100          32.029
2.08.110          32.030
2.08.120          32.003
2.08.130          32.004
2.08.140          32.005
2.08.150          32.006
2.10.010          32.045
2.10.020          32.046
2.10.030          32.047
2.10.040          32.048
2.10.050          32.049
2.10.060          32.050
2.10.070          32.051
2.10.080          32.052
2.10.090          32.053
2.10.100          32.054
2.10.110          32.055
2.10.120          32.056
2.10.130          32.057
2.10.140          32.058
2.10.150          32.059
2.10.160          32.060
2.12.010          32.075
2.12.020          32.076
2.12.030          32.077
2.12.040          32.078
2.12.050          32.079
2.12.060          32.080
2.12.070          32.081
2.12.080          32.082
2.12.090          32.083
2.12.100          32.084
2.16.010          32.095
2.16.020          32.096
2.16.030          32.097
2.16.040          32.098
2.16.050          32.099
2.18.010          33.025
2.18.020          33.026
2.18.030          33.027
2.18.040          33.028
2.18.050          33.029
2.18.060          33.030
2.18.070          33.031
2.18.080          33.032
2.18.090          33.033
2.20.010          33.045
2.20.020          33.046
2.20.030          33.047
2.28.010          33.090
2.28.020          33.091
2.28.030          33.092
2.28.040          33.093
2.30.010          33.105
2.30.020          33.106
2.30.030          33.107
2.30.040          33.108,
                  33.999
2.33.010          33.120
2.33.020          33.121
2.33.030          33.122
2.33.040          33.123
2.33.050          33.124
2.33.060          33.125
2.33.070          33.126
2.33.080          33.127
2.38.010          32.110
2.38.020          32.111
2.40.010          32.125
2.40.020          32.126
2.40.030          32.127
2.40.040          32.128
2.40.050          32.129
2.40.060          32.130
2.40.070          32.131
2.40.080          32.132
2.40.090          32.133
2.40.100          32.134
2.42.010          35.01
2.42.020          35.02
2.42.030          35.03
2.42.040          35.04
2.42.050          35.05
2.42.060          35.06
2.42.070          35.07
2.42.080          35.08,
                  35.99
2.42.090          35.09
2.42.100          35.10
2.42.110          35.11
2.42.120          35.12
2.42.130          35.13
2.42.140          35.14,
                  35.99
2.42.220          35.25
2.42.230          35.45,
                  35.99
2.42.240          35.46,
                  35.99
2.42.250          35.47,
                  35.99
2.42.260          35.48,
                  35.99
2.42.270          35.49,
                  35.99
2.42.280          35.50,
                  35.99
2.48.010          34.01
2.48.020          34.02
2.48.030          34.03
2.48.040          34.04
2.48.050          34.05
2.48.070          34.07
2.48.080          34.08
2.48.090          34.09
2.48.100          34.10
2.48.110          34.11
2.48.120          34.12
2.48.130          34.13
3.02.010          36.001
3.02.020          36.002
3.04.010          36.015
3.04.020          36.016
3.04.030          36.017
3.04.040          36.018
3.06.010          36.030
3.06.020          36.031
3.06.030          36.032
3.06.040          36.033
3.08.010          36.045
3.15.010          36.075
3.15.020          36.076
3.15.030          36.077
3.20.010          36.090
3.20.020          36.091
3.20.030          36.092
4.02.010          92.001
4.02.020          92.002
4.02.030          92.003
4.02.040          92.004
4.04.010          92.015
4.04.020          92.016
4.04.030          92.017
4.04.040          92.018
4.04.050          92.019
4.04.060          92.020
4.04.070          92.021
4.04.080          92.022
4.04.090          92.023
4.06.010          92.035
4.06.020          92.036
4.06.030          92.037
4.08.010          92.050
4.08.020          92.051
4.08.030          92.052
4.08.040          92.065
4.08.050          92.066
4.08.060          92.067
4.08.070          92.068
4.08.080          92.069
4.08.090          92.070
4.08.100          92.071
4.08.110          92.072
4.08.120          92.073
4.08.130          92.074
4.08.140          92.075
4.08.150          92.076
4.08.160          92.077
4.08.170          92.078
4.08.200          92.081
4.08.210          92.082
4.08.220          92.083
4.08.230          92.084
4.08.240          92.085
4.08.250          92.086
4.08.260          92.087
4.08.270          92.088
4.08.280          92.089
4.08.290          92.090
4.08.300          92.091
4.08.310          92.092
4.08.320          92.093
4.08.330          92.094
4.08.340          92.095
4.08.350          92.096
4.10.010          92.115
4.10.020          92.116
4.10.030          92.117
4.10.040          92.118
4.10.050          92.119
4.10.060          92.120
4.10.070          92.121
4.10.080          92.122
4.10.090          92.123
4.10.100          92.130
4.10.110          92.131
4.10.120          92.132
4.10.130          92.133
4.10.140          92.134
4.10.150          92.124
5.02.030          131.01,
                  131.99
5.02.040          131.02,
                  131.99
5.02.050          131.03,
                  131.99
5.04.010          95.01
5.04.020          95.02
5.04.030          95.03
5.04.040          95.99
5.06.010          95.15
5.06.020          95.16
5.06.030          95.99
5.08.010          130.01
5.08.020          130.02
5.08.030          130.03
5.08.040          130.04
5.08.050          130.05
5.10.010          130.20
5.10.020          130.21
5.12.020          132.01,
                  132.99
5.12.030          132.02,
                  132.99
5.14.010          51.30
5.14.020          51.31
5.14.030          51.32
5.14.040          51.33
5.14.050          51.34
5.14.060          51.35
5.14.080          51.36
5.16.010          150.20
5.16.020          150.21
5.16.030          150.22
5.16.040          150.23
5.16.050          150.24
5.16.060          150.25
5.17.010          75.01
5.17.020          75.02
5.17.030          75.03
5.17.040          75.04
5.17.050          75.05
5.17.060          75.06
5.17.070          75.07
5.17.080          75.08
5.17.090          75.09
5.17.100          75.10
5.17.110          75.99
6.04.010          90.001
6.04.020          90.002
6.08.010          90.015
6.08.020          90.016
6.08.030          90.017
6.08.040          90.018
6.08.050          90.019
6.08.060          90.020
6.12.010          90.035
6.12.020          90.036
6.12.030          90.037
6.12.040          90.038
6.12.050          90.039
6.12.060          90.040
6.16.010          90.055
6.16.020          90.056
6.16.030          90.057
6.16.040          90.058
6.16.050          90.059
6.16.060          90.060
6.16.070          90.061
6.16.080          90.062
6.16.090          90.063
6.16.100          90.064,
                  90.999
6.16.110          90.065
6.16.120          90.066
6.16.130          90.067
6.16.140          90.068
6.16.150          90.069
6.16.160          90.070
6.16.170          90.071
6.16.180          90.072
6.16.190          90.073
6.20.010          90.085
6.20.020          90.086
6.20.030          90.087
6.20.040          90.088
6.20.050          90.089
6.20.060          90.090
6.20.070          90.091
6.20.080          90.092
6.20.090          90.093
6.20.100          90.094
6.20.110          90.095
6.20.120          90.096
6.24.010          90.999
7.02.010          54.001
7.04.010          54.002
7.04.020          54.003
7.04.030          54.004
7.04.040          54.005
7.04.050          54.006
7.04.060          54.007
7.04.070          54.008
7.04.080          54.009
7.04.090          54.010
7.04.100          54.011
7.04.110          54.012
7.04.120          54.013
7.04.130          54.014
7.04.140          54.015
7.05.010          54.030
7.05.020          54.031
7.05.030          54.032
7.05.040          54.033
7.05.050          54.034
7.05.060          54.035
7.05.070          54.036
7.05.080          54.037
7.05.090          54.038
7.05.100          54.039
7.05.110          54.040
7.05.120          54.041
7.05.130          54.042
7.05.140          54.043
7.05.150          54.044
7.05.160          54.045
7.05.170          54.046
7.06.010          54.060
7.06.020          54.061
7.06.030          54.062
7.06.040          54.063
7.06.050          54.064
7.08.010          54.075
7.08.020          54.076
7.08.030          54.077
7.08.040          54.078
7.08.060          54.079
7.08.070          54.080
7.08.080          54.081
7.08.090          54.082
7.08.100          54.083
7.08.110          54.084
7.08.120          54.085
7.08.130          54.086
7.08.140          54.087
7.08.150          54.088
7.10.010          54.100
7.12.010          54.115
7.12.030          54.116
7.14.010          54.130
7.14.020          54.131
7.15.010          54.145
7.15.020          54.146
7.16.010          54.160
7.16.020          54.161
7.17.010          54.175
7.17.020          54.176
7.17.030          54.177
7.17.040          54.178
7.17.050          54.179
7.18.010          54.220
7.19.010          54.205
7.20.010          54.190
7.20.030          54.191
7.22.013          55.001
7.22.015          55.001
7.22.020          55.001
7.22.030          55.001
7.22.040          55.001
7.22.045          55.001
7.22.048          55.001
7.22.050          55.001
7.22.051          55.001
7.22.053          55.001
7.22.054          55.001
7.22.055          55.001
7.22.056          55.001
7.22.057          55.001
7.22.058          55.001
7.22.059          55.001
7.22.060          55.001
7.22.065          55.001
7.22.070          55.001
7.22.075          55.001
7.22.080          55.001
7.22.085          55.001
7.22.090          55.001
7.22.100          55.001
7.22.102          55.001
7.22.104          55.001
7.22.110          55.001
7.22.120          55.001
7.22.125          55.001
7.22.126          55.001
7.22.130          55.001
7.22.140          55.001
7.22.150          55.001
7.22.160          55.001
7.22.161          55.001
7.22.170          55.001
7.22.180          55.001
7.22.190          55.001
7.22.191          55.001
7.22.192          55.001
7.22.200          55.001
7.22.201          55.001
7.22.202          55.001
7.22.210          55.001
7.22.211          55.001
7.22.220          55.001
7.22.221          55.001
7.22.222          55.001
7.22.223          55.001
7.22.224          55.001
7.22.225          55.001
7.22.226          55.001
7.22.227          55.001
7.22.228          55.001
7.22.229          55.001
7.22.230          55.001
7.22.232          55.001
7.22.240          55.001
7.24.010          55.015
7.24.020          55.016
7.24.030          55.017
7.24.040          55.018
7.26.010          55.030
7.26.020          55.031
7.26.030          55.032
7.26.040          55.033
7.26.050          55.034
7.26.060          55.035
7.26.070          55.036
7.26.080          55.037
7.28.010          55.050
7.28.020          55.051
7.28.025          55.052
7.28.030          55.053
7.28.040          55.054
7.28.050          55.055
7.28.060          55.056
7.28.070          55.057
7.28.080          55.058
7.28.090          55.059
7.28.100          55.060
7.28.110          55.061
7.28.120          55.063
7.28.130          55.064
7.28.140          55.062
7.28.142          55.065
7.29.010          55.080
7.29.020          55.081
7.30.010          55.095
7.30.020          55.096
7.32.010          55.110
7.32.020          55.111
7.32.030          55.112
7.32.040          55.113
7.32.050          55.114
7.32.060          55.115
7.32.070          55.116
7.32.080          55.117
7.32.090          55.118
7.32.100          55.119
7.32.110          55.120
7.34.010          55.135
7.36.010          55.150
7.36.020          55.151
7.36.030          55.152
7.42.010          55.165
7.42.020          55.166
7.42.030          55.167
7.42.040          55.168
7.42.050          55.169
7.42.060          55.170
7.42.100          55.174
7.42.110          55.175
7.42.120          55.176
7.42.130          55.177
7.42.140          55.178
7.42.150          55.179
7.42.160          55.180
7.42.170          55.181
7.42.180          55.182
7.42.190          55.183
Title 8           Ch. 53, App. A
8.02.010          53.001
8.04.010          53.002
8.04.020          53.003
8.04.030          53.004
8.04.040          53.005
8.04.050          53.006
8.04.060          53.007
8.04.070          53.008
8.04.075          53.009
8.04.080          53.010
8.04.090          53.011
8.04.110          53.013
8.04.120          53.014
8.06.010          53.025
8.06.020          53.026
8.06.030          53.027
8.06.050          53.029
8.06.055          53.030
8.06.070          53.053
8.06.080          53.054
8.06.090          53.055
8.08.010          53.070
8.08.020          53.071
8.08.030          53.072
8.10.010          53.085
8.10.020          53.086
8.10.030          53.087
8.10.040          53.088
8.10.050          53.089
8.10.060          53.090
8.10.070          53.091
8.10.080          53.092
8.10.090          53.093
8.10.100          53.094
8.10.110          53.095
8.10.120          53.096
8.10.130          53.097
9.02.010          52.001
9.04.010          52.002
9.04.020          52.003
9.04.030          52.004
9.04.040          52.005
9.04.050          52.006
9.04.060          52.007
9.04.070          52.008
9.04.075          52.009
9.04.080          52.010
9.04.100          52.011
9.04.130          52.012
9.04.140          52.013
9.04.150          52.014
9.06.010          52.025
9.06.020          52.026
9.06.030          52.027
9.06.040          52.028
9.06.050          52.029
9.08.010          52.040
9.08.020          52.041
9.08.030          52.042
9.08.050          52.043
9.08.051          52.044
9.08.052          52.045
9.08.053          52.046
9.08.055          52.047
9.08.058          52.048
9.08.060          52.049
9.08.070          52.050
9.08.080          52.051
9.08.090          52.052
9.08.100          52.053
9.08.110          52.054
9.10.010          52.065
9.10.020          52.066
9.10.021          52.067
9.10.030          52.068
9.10.031          52.069
9.10.040          52.070
9.10.050          52.071
9.10.051          52.072
9.10.060          52.073
9.10.070          52.074
9.10.080          52.075
9.10.090          52.076
9.15.010          52.090
9.15.020          52.091
9.15.021          52.092
9.15.022          52.093
9.15.023          52.094
9.15.030          52.095
9.15.040          52.096
9.15.050          52.097
9.15.060          52.098
9.15.070          52.099
9.15.080          52.100
9.15.090          52.120
9.15.091          52.121
9.15.092          52.122
9.15.093          52.123
9.15.094          52.124
9.15.095          52.125
9.15.096          52.126
9.15.100          52.101
9.15.101          52.102
9.15.102          52.103
9.15.103          52.104
9.15.104          52.105
9.15.105          52.106
9.15.106          52.107
9.15.110          52.108
9.20.010          52.140
9.20.060          52.141
10.02.010         51.01
10.02.020         51.02
10.02.030         51.03
10.04.010         51.15
10.04.020         51.16
10.04.030         51.17
10.04.040         51.18
11.02.010         110.01
11.02.020         110.02
11.02.030         110.03
11.02.040         110.04
11.02.050         110.05
11.02.060         110.06
11.02.070         110.07
11.02.080         110.08
11.02.090         110.09
11.02.100         110.10
11.02.110         110.11
11.02.120         110.12
11.02.130         110.13
11.04.010         111.01
11.04.020         111.02
11.04.030         111.03
11.04.040         111.04
11.04.050         111.05
11.04.060         111.06
11.04.070         111.07
11.04.080         111.08
11.04.090         111.09
11.06.010         112.01
11.06.020         112.02
11.06.030         112.03
11.06.040         112.04
11.06.050         112.05
11.06.070         112.06
11.08.010         113.01
11.08.020         113.02
11.08.030         113.03
11.08.040         113.04
11.08.060         113.05
11.08.070         113.06
11.10.010         114.01
11.10.020         114.02
11.10.030         114.03
11.10.040         114.04
11.10.050         114.05
11.10.060         114.06
11.14.010         115.01
11.14.020         115.15
11.14.030         115.16
11.14.040         115.17
11.14.050         115.18
11.14.060         115.19
11.14.070         115.20
11.14.080         115.21
11.14.090         115.35
11.14.100         115.36
11.14.110         115.37
11.14.120         115.38
11.14.130         115.22
11.14.140         115.39
11.14.150         115.23
11.14.160         115.40
11.14.170         115.41
11.14.180         115.42
11.14.190         115.55
11.14.210         115.57
11.14.220         115.58
11.14.230         115.59
11.14.240         115.43
11.14.250         115.24
11.14.260         115.99
11.14.261         115.60
11.14.262         115.61
11.22.010         116.01
11.22.020         116.02
11.22.030         116.03
11.22.040         116.04
11.22.050         116.05
11.22.060         116.06
11.22.070         116.07
11.24.010         117.01
11.24.020         117.02
11.24.030         117.03
11.24.040         117.04
11.24.050         117.05
11.24.060         117.06
11.24.070         117.07
11.24.080         117.08
11.24.090         117.09
11.24.100         117.10
11.24.110         117.11
11.24.120         117.12
11.24.130         117.13
11.24.140         117.14
11.24.150         117.15
11.24.170         117.16
12.02.010         93.01
12.04.010         93.02
12.04.020         93.03
12.04.030         93.04
12.04.040         93.05
12.04.050         93.06
12.04.060         93.07
12.04.070         93.08
12.04.080         93.09
12.04.090         93.10
12.04.100         93.99
12.06.010         93.25
12.06.020         93.26
12.06.030         93.27
12.06.040         93.28
12.08.010         93.40
12.08.020         93.41
12.08.030         93.42
14.02.010         93.55
14.02.015         93.56
14.02.020         93.57
14.02.030         93.58
14.02.040         93.99
14.04.010         94.001
14.04.020         94.002
14.04.030         94.003
14.04.040         94.004
14.06.010         94.020
14.08.010         94.035
14.08.020         94.036
14.10.010         94.050
14.10.020         94.051
14.10.030         94.052
14.10.040         94.053
14.10.050         94.053
14.12.010         94.065
14.12.020         94.066
14.12.030         94.067
14.12.050         94.068
14.12.060         94.069
14.14.010         94.080
14.14.020         94.081
14.14.030         94.082
14.14.040         94.083
14.14.050         94.084
14.16.010         94.095
14.16.020         94.096
16.02.010         91.001
16.02.020         91.002
16.02.030         91.003
16.02.040         91.999
16.04.010         91.015
16.04.015         91.016
16.04.020         91.017
16.04.030         91.018
16.04.040         91.019
16.04.050         91.020
16.04.060         91.021
16.04.070         91.022
16.06.010         91.035
16.06.020         91.036
16.06.030         91.037
16.06.040         91.038
16.06.050         91.039
16.06.060         91.040
16.06.070         91.999
16.08.010         91.055
16.08.020         91.056
16.08.030         91.999
16.10.010         91.070,
                  91.999
16.10.020         91.071,
                  91.999
16.10.030         91.072,
                  91.999
16.10.040         91.073,
                  91.999
16.10.050         91.074,
                  91.999
                  91.075,
16.10.060         91.076,
                  91.999
18.02.010         70.01
18.04.010         70.02
18.04.020         70.03
18.04.030         70.04
18.04.040         70.05
18.04.050         70.99
18.06.010         71.01
18.06.020         71.02
18.08.010         Ch. 77, Sch. IX
18.08.020         73.01
18.08.030         73.02
18.08.040         73.03
18.08.050         73.04
18.08.060         Ch. 77, Sch. I
18.08.065         Ch. 77, Sch. I
18.08.067         Ch. 77, Sch. I
18.08.070         Ch. 77, Sch. II
18.08.080         Ch. 77, Sch. III
18.08.090         Ch. 77, Sch. IV
18.08.092         Ch. 77, Sch. IV
18.08.093         Ch. 77, Sch. VI
18.08.095         Ch. 77, Sch. VIII
18.08.096         Ch. 77, Sch. V
18.08.100         Ch. 77, Sch. VII
18.08.110         Ch. 77, Sch. VII
18.08.115         Ch. 77, Sch. X
18.08.120         73.05
18.08.130         73.06
18.12.010         Ch. 76, Sch. I
18.12.020         72.01
18.12.030         72.02
18.12.050         Ch. 76, Sch. II
18.14.010         Ch. 76, Sch. III
18.14.020         72.15
18.14.030         72.16
18.16.010         Ch. 76, Sch. IV
18.16.020         72.30
18.16.030         72.99
18.16.040         72.31
18.16.050         72.32
18.18.010         Ch. 76, Sch. V
18.18.020         72.45
18.20.010         74.01
18.20.020         74.20
18.20.030         74.21
18.20.040         74.02
18.20.050         74.03
18.20.060         74.04
18.20.070         74.05
18.20.080         74.35
18.20.090         74.36
18.20.100         74.37
18.20.110         74.06
18.20.120         74.07
18.20.130         74.38
18.20.140         74.08
18.20.150         74.99
18.22.010         Ch. 76, Sch. VI
18.22.020         Ch. 76, Sch. VI
18.23.010         Ch. 76, Sch. VII
18.23.020         72.60
20.02.010         153.001
20.02.020         153.002
20.02.030         153.003
20.02.040         153.004
20.02.050         153.005
20.02.060         153.006
20.04.010         153.007
20.04.020         153.007
20.04.030         153.007
20.04.040         153.007
20.04.050         153.007
20.04.060         153.007
20.04.070         153.007
20.04.080         153.007
20.04.090         153.007
20.04.100         153.007
20.04.110         153.007
20.04.120         153.007
20.04.130         153.007
20.04.140         153.007
20.04.150         153.007
20.06.010         153.020
20.06.020         153.021
20.06.030         153.022
20.06.040         153.023
20.06.050         153.024
20.06.060         153.025
20.06.070         153.026
20.06.080         153.027
20.06.090         153.028
20.08.010         153.040
20.08.020         153.041
20.10.010         153.055
20.10.020         153.056
20.10.030         153.057
20.10.040         153.058
20.10.050         153.059
20.12.010         153.070
20.12.015         153.071
20.12.020         153.072
20.12.030         153.073
20.12.040         153.074
20.14.010         153.085
20.14.020         153.086
20.14.030         153.087
20.14.040         153.088
20.16.010         153.100
20.16.020         153.101
20.16.030         153.102
20.18.010         153.115
20.18.020         153.116
20.18.030         153.117
20.20.010         153.130
20.20.020         153.131
20.20.030         153.132
20.20.040         153.133
20.20.050         153.134
20.20.060         153.135
20.20.090         153.136
20.22.010         153.150
20.24.010         153.165
20.26.010         153.180
20.28.010         153.195
20.32.010         153.999
22.02.030         150.99
22.12.010         151.01
22.12.020         151.02
22.12.030         151.03
22.12.040         151.04
22.12.050         151.05
22.12.060         151.06
22.12.070         151.07
22.12.080         151.08
22.12.090         151.09
22.12.100         151.10
22.12.110         151.11
22.12.120         151.12
22.12.130         151.13
22.12.140         151.14
22.12.150         151.15
22.12.160         151.16
22.12.170         151.17
22.12.180         151.18
22.12.190         151.99
22.12.200         151.19
22.14.010         150.01
22.14.020         150.02
22.14.030         150.03
22.14.040         150.04
22.14.050         150.05
22.14.060         150.06
22.14.070         150.07
24.02.010         38.01
24.02.020         38.02
26.02.020         152.99
26.06.010         152.15
26.06.020         152.16
26.08.010         152.30
26.08.020         152.31
26.08.030         152.32
26.08.040         152.33
28.02.010         154.001
28.02.020         154.002
28.04.010         154.015
28.04.020         154.016
28.04.030         154.017
28.06.010         154.030
28.06.020         154.031
28.08.010         154.045
28.08.020         154.046
28.08.030         154.047
28.10.010         154.060
28.12.010         154.075
28.12.020         154.076
28.12.030         154.077
28.12.040         154.078
28.12.050         154.079
28.12.060         154.080
28.12.070         154.081
28.12.080         154.082
28.12.090         154.083
28.12.100         154.084
28.14.010         154.095
28.14.015         154.096
28.14.020         154.097
28.14.030         154.098
28.14.040         154.099
28.15.010         154.110
28.15.020         154.111
28.15.030         154.112
28.15.040         154.113
28.15.050         154.114
28.15.060         154.115
28.15.070         154.116
28.15.080         154.117
28.15.090         154.118
28.15.100         154.119
28.16.010         154.145
28.16.020         154.146
28.16.030         154.147
28.18.010         154.160
28.18.020         154.161
28.18.030         154.162
28.18.040         154.163
28.18.050         154.164
28.18.060         154.165
28.18.070         154.166
28.20.010         154.003
28.20.020         154.003
28.20.030         154.003
28.20.040         154.003
28.20.050         154.003
28.20.060         154.003
28.20.070         154.003
28.20.080         154.003
28.20.090         154.003
28.20.100         154.003
28.20.110         154.003
28.20.112         154.003
28.20.114         154.003
28.20.120         154.003
28.20.130         154.003
28.20.140         154.003
28.20.150         154.003
28.20.170         154.003
28.20.180         154.003
28.20.190         154.003
28.20.200         154.003
28.20.210         154.003
28.20.220         154.003
28.20.230         154.003
28.20.240         154.003
28.22.010         154.180
28.22.015         154.181
28.22.020         154.182
28.24.010         154.195
28.24.020         154.196
30.01.010         37.35
30.01.020         37.36
30.01.030         37.37
30.01.040         37.38
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Description
1003     5-28-1996   54.130,
                     54.131
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1012        - -         154.077
1047        - -         154.077
1048        - -         154.077
1056        - -         154.080
1109        - -         154.076
1222        - -         37.36
1238        - -         37.36
1247        - -         37.36
1262        - -         37.36
1278        - -         37.36
1301        - -         37.36
1319        - -         37.36
1342        - -         37.36
1355        - -         37.36
1365        - -         37.36
1426        - -         154.080,
                        154.082
1482        - -         Ch. 76, Sch. I
3           8-14-1922   92.001
9           8-14-1922   35.14,
                        35.99
                        35.48,
                        35.99,
14          8-14-1922   91.070 
                        91.074,
                        91.999,
                        130.05
16          8-14-1922   36.001
18          8-14-1922   91.055,
                        91.056
161         7-2-1923    94.050
                        35.45,
251         8-19-1925   35.46,
                        35.99
225         4-9-1926    53.013
                        35.46,
310         1-2-1928    35.99,
                        71.01
312         8-6-1928    91.075,
                        91.999
365         4-30-1931   36.002
415         9-5-1936    Ch. 77, Sch. IX
438         4-19-1938   91.073,
                        91.999
439         5-17-1938   73.01
457         4-25-1939   31.18
471         3-19-1940   35.47,
                        35.99
485-A       12-17-1940  92.002
503         6-3-1941    131.03,
                        131.99
511         8-19-1941   117.01 
                        117.16
517         3-17-1942   51.01 
                        51.03
530         1-5-1943    35.49,
                        35.99
545         3-7-1944    Ch. 77, Sch. I
546         3-7-1944    73.03
                        70.05,
556         4-24-1945   91.076,
                        91.999
571         12-4-1945   94.051 
                        94.053
                        93.55,
592         11-19-1946  93.57,
                        93.58,
                        93.99
602         6-17-1947   32.058
                        92.003,
                        92.004,
603         8-19-1947   92.015 
                        92.023,
                        92.096,
                        92.124
604         8-19-1947   92.095
612         3-16-1948   130.04
638         1-2-1951    94.020
                        53.071,
664         1-20-1953   53.072,
                        53.999
675         10-20-1953  33.045 
                        33.047
683         2-16-1954   94.035,
                        94.036
                        33.025 
730         8-20-1957   33.029,
                        33.031,
                        33.032
733         11-5-1957   Ch. 77, Sch. I
742         2-3-1959    91.999
746         6-16-1959   Ch. 77, Sch. VII
                        153.001 
                        153.007,
                        153.020 
                        153.028,
                        153.040,
                        153.041,
                        153.055 
                        153.059,
                        153.070,
                        153.072,
                        153.073,
754         9-1-1959    153.085 
                        153.088,
                        153.100 
                        153.102,
                        153.115 
                        153.117,
                        153.130 
                        153.136,
                        153.150,
                        153.165,
                        153.180,
                        153.195
757         3-1-1960    92.118
764         4-19-1960   32.110,
                        32.111
788         6-5-1962    Ch. 77, Sch. I
801         2-5-1963    35.25
825         12-15-1964  114.01 
                        114.06
858         3-1-1966    92.035,
                        92.117
860         4-26-1966   Ch. 77, Sch. I
878         8-1-1967    92.123
882         10-17-1967  Ch. 77, Sch. II
885         2-6-1968    36.045
986         11-5-1968   73.02
914         - -1969     37.01,
                        37.02
906         8-5-1969    36.030 
                        36.033
907         8-5-1969    36.015 
                        36.018
                        152.01,
                        152.15,
918         - -1970     152.16,
                        152.30 
                        152.33,
                        152.99
927         9-1-1970    Ch. 77, Sch. I
950         - -1971     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        53.004,
                        53.005,
937         5-18-1971   53.008,
                        53.010,
                        53.011,
                        53.029
938         5-18-1971   73.04,
                        Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        72.01,
                        72.02,
941         7-6-1971    72.15,
                        72.16,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. III
942         7-20-1971   Ch. 77, Sch. I
964         9-21-1971   131.02,
                        131.99
948         10-5-1971   Ch. 77, Sch. I
973         - -1972     94.065 
                        94.069
977         - -1972     Ch. 76, Sch. I
954         3-7-1972    94.001 
                        94.004
956         3-7-1972    51.17
                        74.01 
                        74.08,
                        74.20,
964         6-6-1972    74.21,
                        74.35 
                        74.38,
                        74.99
965         6-20-1972   Ch. 77, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 77, Sch. III
967         8-1-1972    Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        154.001 
                        154.003,
                        154.015,
                        154.017,
                        154.030,
                        154.031,
                        154.045 
                        154.047,
970         8-15-1972   154.084,
                        154.095,
                        154.097 
                        154.099,
                        154.145 
                        154.147,
                        154.160 
                        154.166,
                        154.180,
                        154.195
971         8-15-1972   Ch. 76, Sch. III
985         6-12-1973   33.092,
                        33.093
988         8-14-1973   Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. III
990         10-9-1973   94.004
996         - -1974     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        154.076,
992         1-8-1974    154.110 
                        154.119
1000        6-11-1974   Ch. 77, Sch. I
1002        6-25-1974   Ch. 77, Sch. I
1005        8-13-1974   Ch. 77, Sch. I
1008        9-10-1974   Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1014        12-23-1974  Ch. 77, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1019        - -1975     Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        91.001,
1020        - -1975     91.002,
                        91.999
1022        - -1975     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1021        5-27-1975   Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. II
1030        10-28-1975  72.30,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. IV
1032        11-10-1975  Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1035        - -1976     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1054        - -1976     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1036        3-9-1976    94.004
994         3-12-1976   94.004
1039        4-28-1976   Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1045        8-10-1976   154.016
1061        - -1977     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1062        6-14-1977   Ch. 76, Sch. III
1070        8-23-1977   33.033
1115        4-24-1979   Ch. 77, Sch. I
1143        - -1980     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1140        2-12-1980   Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1173        - -1981     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1179        - -1981     32.058
1183        - -1981     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1180        6-9-1981    Ch. 77, Sch. I
1187        7-28-1981   Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1197        3-9-1982    53.085 
                        53.097
1199        4-27-1982   Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1218        5-24-1983   53.008,
                        53.053
                        54.001 
                        54.003,
                        54.005 
                        54.015,
                        54.030 
                        54.034,
                        54.036 
                        54.046,
                        54.060 
                        54.064,
                        54.075 
                        54.078,
                        54.080 
                        54.086,
                        54.100,
                        54.115,
                        54.116,
                        54.160,
                        54.161,
                        55.015 
1240        - -1984     55.018,
                        55.030 
                        55.037,
                        55.050 
                        55.065,
                        55.080,
                        55.081,
                        55.095,
                        55.096,
                        55.110 
                        55.120,
                        55.135,
                        55.150 
                        55.152,
                        55.165,
                        55.166,
                        55.168 
                        55.170,
                        55.174 
                        55.183,
                        55.999
                        150.20 
1248        - -1984     150.22,
                        150.25
                        53.004,
                        53.005,
1251        - -1984     53.008,
                        53.010,
                        53.011,
                        53.029
                        32.028,
1254        - -1985     32.057,
                        32.083
1256        - -1985     30.05
                        91.015,
1261        - -1985     91.017 
                        91.022
1264        - -1985     54.006
                        115.01,
                        115.15 
                        115.24,
1265        - -1985     115.35 
                        115.43,
                        115.55 
                        115.61,
                        115.99
                        75.01 
1269        - -1985     75.10,
                        75.99
1274        - -1985     72.45,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. V
1276        - -1986     Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. III
1282        - -1986     Ch. 77, Sch. VIII
                        151.01 
                        151.04,
1291        - -1986     151.06 
                        151.19,
                        151.99
                        154.003,
1293        - -1987     154.075 
                        154.077
1295        - -1987     92.035
1296        - -1987     Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        151.02,
1297        - -1987     151.05,
                        151.19
1306        - -1987     115.20,
                        115.21
1310        - -1987     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1311        - -1988     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1312        - -1988     32.001
1314        - -1988     32.028
                        52.090 
1316        - -1988     52.108,
                        52.120 
                        52.126
1328        - -1988     93.56
1329        - -1988     Ch. 77, Sch. VI
                        36.075 
                        36.077,
1331        - -1988     53.003,
                        53.030,
                        54.004
1332        - -1988     52.140,
                        52.141
                        32.028,
1335        - -1989     32.057,
                        32.083
1338        - -1989     54.145,
                        54.146
1341        - -1989     32.095 
                        32.099
1345        - -1989     33.030
1347        - -1989     54.175 
                        54.179
1350        - -1989     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1351        - -1989     Ch. 77, Sch. V
1360        - -1991     Ch. 77, Sch. X
                        52.001 
                        52.008,
                        52.010 
                        52.014,
                        52.025 
                        52.029,
1374        - -1992     52.040 
                        52.054,
                        52.065,
                        52.066,
                        52.068 
                        52.070,
                        52.073 
                        52.076
1377        - -1992     72.45,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. V
1378        - -1992     52.006
                        92.035 
1379        - -1992     92.037,
                        92.052,
                        92.076
1381        - -1992     30.06
1384        - -1992     37.35 
                        37.38
1386        - -1992     72.60,
                        Ch. 76, Sch. VII
1390        - -1992     32.075
1391        - -1992     32.028,
                        32.057
                        91.035 
1397        - -1993     91.040,
                        91.999
1398        - -1993     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        34.01 
1399        - -1993     34.05,
                        34.07 
                        34.13
1405        - -1993     91.016
1406        - -1993     154.145
                        52.009,
                        52.014,
1407        - -1993     52.066,
                        52.067,
                        52.070 
                        52.072
                        152.16,
1408        - -1993     154.195,
                        154.196
                        91.035 
1410        - -1993     91.040,
                        91.999
1411        - -1993     92.037
1416        - -1994     94.068
1422        - -1994     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        32.001,
1424        - -1994     32.002,
                        32.005
1425        - -1994     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        54.008,
                        54.009,
1428        - -1994     54.082,
                        55.001,
                        55.031,
                        55.170
                        50.01 
                        50.03,
1433        - -1995     52.051,
                        53.053,
                        54.084
1436        - -1995     150.01 
                        150.07
1446        - -1995     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1452        - -1995     36.090 
                        36.092
-- -1996    Ch. 76, Sch. I
1457        - -1996     93.27,
                        93.28
1459        - -1996     33.033
                        153.001 
                        153.003,
                        153.006,
                        153.021,
1463        - -1996     153.026,
                        153.028,
                        153.070,
                        153.071,
                        153.132,
                        153.134
1470        - -1996     31.18,
                        32.028
1471        - -1996     32.057
1477        - -1996     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1478        - -1996     Ch. 76, Sch. V
1487        - -1997     32.060
1489        - -1997     154.082
1498        - -1998     33.120 
                        33.127
1505        - -1998     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1509        - -1998     35.50,
                        35.99
1513        - -1999     33.033
                        90.001,
                        90.002,
                        90.015 
                        90.020,
                        90.035 
1514        - -1999     90.040,
                        90.055 
                        90.073,
                        90.085 
                        90.096,
                        90.999
                        54.087,
1515        - -1999     54.088,
                        54.205,
                        54.220
1516        - -1999     54.079
1527        - -2000     53.052
                        51.15,
1529        - -2000     51.16,
                        51.18
1537        - -2000     31.18
1539        - -2000     32.028
1540        - -2000     32.057
                        95.15,
1544        - -2001     95.16,
                        95.99
1546        - -2001     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1550        - -2001     Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1551        - -2001     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1560        - -2002     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1561        - -2002     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1566        - -2002     36.045
1567        - -2003     Ch. 76, Sch. I
1568        - -2003     54.190,
                        54.191
                        92.035,
1571        - -2003     92.036,
                        92.075,
                        92.077
1573        5-13-2003   T.S.O. IV
1574        6-24-2003   37.36
1576        7-8-2003    T.S.O. XII
1577        7-22-2003   Ch. 77, Sch. I
1578        8-12-2003   T.S.O. XI
1579        8-12-2003   T.S.O. I
1580        12-11-2003  T.S.O. III
1581        10-14-2003  T.S.O. IX
1582        10-28-2003  T.S.O. I
1584        11-25-2003  T.S.O. IV
1585        11-25-2003  T.S.O. VII
1587        12-22-2003  Ch. 76, Sch. I
1588        1-13-2004   T.S.O. I
1589        2-10-2004   Ch. 76, Sch. I
1590        2-10-2004   T.S.O. I
1591        3-9-2004    T.S.O. II
1592        3-9-2004    T.S.O. II
1593        3-9-2004    T.S.O. II
1594        3-9-2004    T.S.O. XII
1595        3-9-2004    T.S.O. XII
1597        4-13-2004   T.S.O. II
1598        4-13-2004   T.S.O. II
1599        4-13-2004   T.S.O. II
1600        5-11-2004   37.15
1601        6-8-2004    37.36
1602        6-22-2004   T.S.O. IV
1604        8-10-2004   T.S.O. VIII
1605        8-10-2004   T.S.O. VI
1609        8-24-2004   T.S.O. XI
1610        10-26-2004  T.S.O. XI
1611        10-26-2004  32.028
1614        11-9-2004   T.S.O. I
1615        11-9-2004   T.S.O. I
1616        11-23-2004  Ch. 76, Sch. I
1617        11-23-2004  Ch. 77, Sch. I
1619        12-28-2004  T.S.O. XI
1620        12-28-2004  154.046,
                        154.079
1621        12-28-2004  Ch. 77, Sch. I
1623        3-22-2005   T.S.O. XII
1624        4-12-2005   T.S.O. XII
1626        4-26-2005   Ch. 76, Sch. I
1627        5-24-2005   31.02
1628        6-14-2005   37.36
1629        6-28-2005   T.S.O. XII
1631        9-13-2005   54.190,
                        54.191
1632        10-25-2005  T.S.O. I
1633        11-8-2005   T.S.O. VII
1634        11-22-2005  T.S.O. II
1635        11-22-2005  Ch. 76, Sch. I
1636        11-22-2005  Ch. 76, Sch. I
1638        2-28-2006   T.S.O. XI
1639        4-25-2006   T.S.O. XII
1640        5-23-2006   T.S.O. I
1641        5-23-2006   T.S.O. II
1642        6-13-2006   T.S.O. XII
1643        6-13-2006   T.S.O. I
1644        6-27-2006   37.36
1646        9-26-2006   T.S.O. XII
1647        9-26-2006   T.S.O. III
1648        10-24-2006  T.S.O. II
1649        11-14-2006  T.S.O. I
1650        11-28-2006  T.S.O. I
1652        11-26-2007  T.S.O. IX
1653        3-13-2007   115.20,
                        115.21
1655        3-27-2007   T.S.O. I
1656        3-27-2007   T.S.O. I
1657        5-8-2007    54.190,
                        54.191
1658        5-22-2007   54.190,
                        54.191
1659        6-12-2007   37.36
1660        6-12-2007   T.S.O. I
1661        6-26-2007   T.S.O. II
1662        6-26-2007   T.S.O. II
1664        8-14-2007   T.S.O. XI
1665        9-11-2007   T.S.O. I
1666        9-11-2007   T.S.O. III
1667        9-26-2007   T.S.O. I
1668        9-25-2007   51.15
1669        10-9-2007   T.S.O. I
1670        11-26-2007  T.S.O. IX
1671        11-13-2007  T.S.O. I
1673        11-27-2007  T.S.O. XII
08-0122-01  1-22-2008   T.S.O. III
08-0122-02  1-22-2008   54.079
08-0226-01  2-26-2008   T.S.O. XI
09-0310-02  3-10-2009   T.S.O. X
08-0325-01  3-25-2008   T.S.O. I
08-0513-01  5-13-2008   T.S.O. I
08-0610-02  6-10-2008   37.36
08-0708-03  7-8-2008    T.S.O. II
08-0812-05  8-12-2008   52.006
08-0812-06  8-12-2008   50.15 
                        50.17
                        31.18,
08-1014-07  10-14-2008  32.028,
                        32.057
08-1028-08  10-28-2008  T.S.O. I
08-1028-09  10-28-2008  T.S.O. I
                        39.01 
08-1110-10  11-10-2008  39.08,
                        Ch. 39, App. A
08-1209-12  12-9-2008   Ch. 77, Sch. I
09-0210-01  2-10-2009   Ch. 76, Sch. VIII
09-0310-02  3-10-2009   T.S.O. I
09-0324-05  3-24-2009   T.S.O. I
09-0526-06  5-26-2009   T.S.O. VI
09-0609-07  6-9-2009    37.36
09-0609-08  6-9-2009    T.S.O. XII
09-0623-09  6-23-2009   T.S.O. XII
09-0825-11  8-25-2009   T.S.O. I
09-09-08-12 9-8-2009    T.S.O. VI
09-0922-13  9-22-2009   152.34 
                        152.39
09-1013-14  10-13-2009  T.S.O. XII
                        92.036,
                        92.038,
09-1027-15  10-27-2009  92.085,
                        92.097 
                        92.102,
                        92.135
09-1110-16  11-10-2009  T.S.O. I
09-1110-17  11-10-2009  Ch. 76, Sch. I
09-1208-19  12-8-2009   Ch. 76, Sch. I
09-1208-20  12-8-2009   Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        96.01 
09-1208-21  12-8-2009   96.03,
                        96.99
10-0112-01  1-12-2010   T.S.O. V
10-0511-03  5-11-2010   T.S.O. XII
10-1012-08  10-12-2010  T.S.O. XII
10-1012-09  10-12-2010  T.S.O. XII
10-1123-11  11-23-2010  T.S.O. IX
10-1214-12  12-14-2010  T.S.O. XI
10-1214-13  12-14-2010  T.S.O. XII
10-1214-14  12-14-2010  T.S.O. XII
10-1214-15  12-14-2010  T.S.O. I
10-0126-02  1-26-2010   51.15,
                        52.044
                        52.044,
10-0810-07  8-10-2010   54.079 
                        54.081
10-1228-18  12-28-2010  154.130 
                        154.133
11-0111-19  1-11-2011   71.15 
                        71.18
11-0125-20  1-25-2011   31.14
11-0208-21  2-8-2011    54.190,
                        54.191
11-0308-22  3-8-2011    T.S.O. I
11-0322-23  3-22-2011   T.S.O. IX
11-0524-24  5-24-2011   T.S.O. IX
11-0614-25  6-14-2011   37.36
11-0712-27  7-12-2011   53.031
11-1025-28  10-25-2011  T.S.O. XI
11-1213-30  12-13-2011  T.S.O. I
12-0110-31  1-10-2012   T.S.O. I
12-0124-32  1-24-2012   32.061
12-0228-33  2-28-2012   54.079
12-0327-34  3-27-2012   39.20 
                        39.26
12-0410-35  4-10-2012   32.001,
                        51.15
12-0508-36  5-8-2012    T.S.O. IX
12-0522-37  5-22-2012   T.S.O. II
12-0612-38  6-12-2012   37.36 -
                        37.38
12-0626-39  6-26-2012   T.S.O. IX
12-0828-41  8-28-2012   Adopting Ordinance
12-1009-42  10-9-2012   31.18
12-1009-43  10-9-2012   32.057
12-1127-44  11-27-2012  T.S.O. XII
12-1127-45  11-27-2012  T.S.O. I
13-0108-47  1-8-2013    T.S.O. VII
13-0226-48  2-26-2013   T.S.O. IX
13-0611-49  6-11-2013   37.36 -
                        37.38
13-0611-50  6-11-2013   91.036
13-0611-51  6-11-2013   36.075 -
                        36.077
13-0625-52  6-25-2013   36.045
13-0709-53  7-9-2013    131.04,
                        131.99
13-0723-55  7-23-2013   T.S.O. XII
13-0723-56  7-23-2013   118.01 -
                        118.05
13-0813-57  8-13-2013   Ch. 76, Sch. I
                        111.03,
13-0827-58  8-27-2013   112.03,
                        113.03
13-1008-59  10-8-2013   T.S.O. IX
13-1022-60  10-22-2013  Ch. 76, Sch. I
13-1112-61  11-12-2013  T.S.O. I
13-1126-62  11-26-2013  Ch. 76, Sch. IV
13-1126-63  11-26-2013  36.003
13-1126-64  11-26-2013  T.S.O. IX
14-0114-66  1-14-2014   36.090
14-0128-67  1-28-2014   93.27
14-0225-68  2-25-2014   Ch. 77, Sch. I
14-0610-70  6-10-2014   37.36 -
                        37.38
14-0610-71  6-10-2014   36.077
14-0624-73  6-24-2014   T.S.O. IX
14-0826-75  8-26-2014   T.S.O. IX
14-0909-78  9-9-2014    T.S.O. X
14-0923-79  9-23-2014   51.45 -
                        51.47
14-1110-80  11-10-2014  T.S.O. I
14-1110-81  11-10-2014  T.S.O. III
14-1110-82  11-10-2014  T.S.O. I
14-1125-83  11-25-2014  T.S.O. XII
14-1125-84  11-25-2014  115.35
14-1209-85  12-9-2014   T.S.O. XII
                        92.079,
14-1222-87  12-22-2014  92.080,
                        92.091,
                        92.119
15-0113-88  1-13-2015   T.S.O. III
15-0526-90  5-26-2015   115.35
15-0609-91  6-9-2015    Adopting Ordinance
15-0623-92  6-23-2015   37.36
15-0714-94  7-14-2015   T.S.O. I
15-0728-95  7-28-2015   Ch. 77, Sch. I
15-0908-96  9-8-2015    T.S.O. I
15-1013-97  10-13-2015  T.S.O. I
15-1110-98  11-10-2015  T.S.O. I
15-1110-99  11-10-2015  T.S.O. I
15-1110-100 11-10-2015  92.036
15-1124-101 11-15-2015  T.S.O. I
15-1208-102 12-8-2015   T.S.O. II
15-1222-104 12-22-2015  Ch. 76, Sch. I
16-0223-105 2-23-2016   T.S.O. I
16-0223-106 2-23-2016   54.079
16-0510-107 5-10-2016   T.S.O. I
16-0524-109 5-24-2016   T.S.O. XII
16-0524-110 5-24-2016   T.S.O. III
16-0614-111 6-14-2016   T.S.O. IX
16-0628-112 6-28-2016   37.36
16-0628-113 6-28-2016   115.35
16-0712-114 7-12-2016   Adopting Ordinance
16-0726-116 7-26-2016   T.S.O. III
16-1108-117 11-8-2016   T.S.O. I
16-1213-120 12-13-2016  37.45
17-0110-121 1-10-2017   37.45
17-0328-122 3-28-2017   T.S.O. I
17-0328-123 3-28-2017   115.21
17-0425-125 4-25-2017   T.S.O. II
17-0425-126 4-25-2017   T.S.O. XII
17-0613-128 6-13-2017   37.36
17-0627-131 6-27-2017   T.S.O. XI
17-0711-133 7-11-2017   T.S.O. VII
17-0808-135 8-8-2017    T.S.O. XII
17-0822-136 8-22-2017   T.S.O. X
17-0926-138 9-26-2017   T.S.O. XII
17-114-140  11-14-2017  T.S.O. I
17-1128-141 11-28-2017  T.S.O. XI
17-1226-143 12-26-2017  T.S.O. II
17-1226-144 12-26-2017  37.50
17-1226-145 12-26-2017  T.S.O. VII
18-0123-147 1-23-2018   T.S.O. XII
18-0123-148 1-23-2018   36.003,
                        T.S.O. VII
18-0227-149 2-27-2018   T.S.O. I
18-0313-150 3-13-2018   T.S.O. VII
18-0410-151 4-10-2018   T.S.O. I
18-0424-152 4-24-2018   T.S.O. IX
18-0508-153 5-8-2018    T.S.O. VII
18-0522-154 5-22-2018   T.S.O. XII
18-0612-155 6-12-2018   37.36
18-0612-156 6-12-2018   154.075 -
                        154.077
18-0626-157 6-26-2018   T.S.O. IX
18-0724-158 7-24-2018   T.S.O. XII
18-0814-160 8-14-2018   T.S.O. VI
18-0925-161 9-25-2018   91.090 -
                        91.095
18-1009-162 10-9-2018   Adopting Ordinance
18-1113-163 11-13-2018  T.S.O. I
18-1127-164 11-27-2018  T.S.O. IX
18-1127-165 11-27-2018  T.S.O. V
18-1211-167 12-11-2018  T.S.O. XII
18-1211-168 12-11-2018  T.S.O. XII
19-0108-169 1-8-2019    T.S.O. IX
19-0122-170 1-22-2019   132.01,
                        132.02
19-0514-171 5-14-2019   T.S.O. IX
19-0611-172 6-11-2019   36.100 -
                        36.106
19-0611-173 6-11-2019   54.061
19-0611-174 6-11-2019   39.30 -
                        39.33
19-0625-175 6-25-2019   T.S.O. IX
                        119.01 -
19-0709-176 7-9-2019    119.06,
                        119.99
                        152.01,
                        152.15,
19-0709-177 7-9-2019    152.16,
                        152.30 -
                        152.41,
                        152.99
19-0709-178 7-9-2019    131.01
                        78.01 -
19-0813-181 8-13-2019   78.11,
                        78.99
19-0827-182 8-27-2019   T.S.O. I
19-0827-183 8-27-2019   Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        78.03 -
19-0827-184 8-27-2019   78.07,
                        78.09
                        51.15,
19-0924-185 9-24-2019   51.18,
                        51.30
19-0924-186 9-24-2019   115.20,
                        115.21
19-1022-187 10-22-2019  T.S.O. I
18-1022-188 10-22-2019  Ch. 77, Sch. I
                        154.003,
19-1112-189 11-12-2020  154.075 -
                        154.077
19-1210-191 12-10-2019  36.120 -
                        36.123
20-0114-192 1-14-2020   T.S.O. I 
20-0114-193 1-14-2020   33.008
20-0114-194 1-14-2020   120.02
20-0114-195 1-14-2020   Adopting Ordinance
20-0211-196 2-11-2020   T.S.O. XI
20-0211-197 2-11-2020   T.S.O. II
20-0211-198 2-11-2020   T.S.O. XII
20-0211-199 2-11-2020   T.S.O. IX
20-0310-200 3-10-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0310-201 3-10-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0310-202 3-10-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0310-203 3-10-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0414-206 4-14-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0414-207 4-14-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0428-208 4-28-2020   33.001 -
                        33.007
20-0428-209 4-28-2020   T.S.O. II
20-0428-210 4-28-2020   T.S.O. I
                        31.14,
                        31.99,
                        32.061,
                        33.999,
                        34.04,
                        34.06,
                        34.09,
                        35.51,
                        50.99,
                        51.99,
                        52.999,
                        53.999,
                        54.999,
                        55.999,
20-0512-211 5-12-2020   71.99,
                        72.16,
                        72.31,
                        72.99,
                        73.99,
                        92.999,
                        94.999,
                        111.99,
                        112.99,
                        113.99,
                        114.99,
                        116.99,
                        117.99,
                        130.99,
                        150.99,
                        154.99
20-0526-212 5-26-2020   Ch. 77, Sch. I
20-0526-213 5-26-2020   T.S.O. I
20-0609-214 6-9-2020    T.S.O. XII
20-0609-215 6-9-2020    40.01 -
                        40.12
                        52.044,
20-0714-219 7-14-20     53.025,
                        54.079,
                        55.170
20-0728-220 7-28-2020   32.001,
                        32.002
20-0811-222 8-11-2020   T.S.O. XII
20-0908-224 9-8-2020    T.S.O. IX
                        31.18,
20-0922-225 9-22-2020   32.028,
                        32.057
20-1013-226 10-13-2020  154.076
20-1013-227 10-13-2020  32.028
20-1013-228 10-13-2020  95.99
20-1013-229 10-13-2020  95.16
20-1013-230 10-13-2020  T.S.O. I
20-1013-231 10-27-2020  154.0771
20-1027-232 10-27-2020  T.S.O. XII
20-1027-233 10-27-2020  53.050 -
                        53.052
20-1110-234 11-10-2020  T.S.O. XII
20-1110-235 11-10-2020  T.S.O. II,
                        T.S.O. XII
20-1110-236 11-10-2020  T.S.O. II
20-1110-237 11-10-2020  T.S.O. I
                        52.007,
20-1124-238 11-24-2020  52.008,
                        53.008,
                        54.008
                        32.129,
                        52.004,
20-1124-239 11-24-2020  53.003,
                        53.030,
                        54.004
                        131.05,
20-1208-241 12-8-2020   131.06,
                        131.99
                        91.036,
20-1208-242 12-8-2020   91.038,
                        91.039,
                        91.999
                        92.020,
                        92.035,
                        92.036,
21-0126-243 1-26-2021   92.067,
                        92.077,
                        92.101,
                        92.125
21-0209-244 2-9-2021    115.35
21-0223-245 2-23-2021   115.20,
                        115.21
21-0223-246 2-23-2021   32.031
21-0309-247 3-9-2021    T.S.O. I
21-0413-248 4-13-2021   T.S.O. XII
21-0413-249 4-13-2021   T.S.O. XII
21-0413-250 4-13-2021   34.14
21-0413-251 4-13-2021   40.13
                        115.01,
21-0413-252 4-13-2021   115.20,
                        115.21
21-0427-253 4-27-2021   Adopting Ordinance
21-0427-254 4-27-2021   T.S.O. I
21-0525-255 5-25-2021   T.S.O. IX
21-0525-256 5-25-2021   115.01,
                        115.20
21-0622-257 6-22-2021   90.074
21-0622-258 6-22-2021   T.S.O. XI
21-0727-260 7-27-2021   T.S.O. I
21-0810-261 8-10-2021   T.S.O. XII
21-0824-262 8-24-2021   T.S.O. IV
                        115.20,
21-0824-263 8-24-2021   115.35,
                        115.56
21-0914-264 9-14-2021   T.S.O. XII
21-0914-265 9-14-2021   154.080
21-1012-266 10-12-2021  T.S.O. IX
21-1012-267 10-12-2021  T.S.O. IX
21-1026-268 10-26-2021  T.S.O. I
21-1026-269 10-26-2021  74.09
21-1123-270 11-23-2021  T.S.O. I
21-1123-271 11-23-2021  T.S.O. I
21-1214-273 12-14-2021  T.S.O. I
21-1214-274 12-14-2021  T.S.O. IX
21-0111-275 1-11-2022   120.01 -
                        120.12
                        36.076 -
                        36.078,
                        53.005 -
22-0125-276 1-25-2022   53.008,
                        53.031,
                        53.051,
                        53.053
22-0308-278 3-8-2022    T.S.O. I
22-0412-280 4-12-2022   T.S.O. IX
                        30.06,
                        36.003,
22-0412-282 4-12-2022   51.16,
                        52.051,
                        53.053,
                        54.084
22-0426-284 4-26-2022   120.06
                        115.01,
22-0510-285 5-10-2022   115.20,
                        115.21,
                        115.42
22-0524-286 5-24-2022   115.20
22-0524-287 5-24-2022   T.S.O. IX
22-0628-288 6-28-2022   53.031
22-0628-289 6-28-2022   T.S.O. I
                        52.044,
                        53.025,
22-0726-291 7-26-2022   53.031,
                        54.079,
                        55.170
22-0726-292 7-26-2022   T.S.O. IX
22-0809-294 8-9-2022    T.S.O. I
22-0823-295 8-3-2022    50.16,
                        52.009
22-0823-296 8-23-2022   95.04
22-0913-297 9-13-2022   T.S.O. XII
22-0913-298 9-13-2022   T.S.O. XII
22-0913-300 9-13-2022   T.S.O. IX
22-0913-301 9-13-2022   T.S.O. I
22-0913-304 9-13-2022   T.S.O. I
22-0927-305 9-27-2022   T.S.O. I
22-0927-306 9-27-2022   T.S.O. I
22-0927-307 9-27-2022   T.S.O. I
22-0927-308 9-27-2022   92.023
22-1011-309 10-11-2022  T.S.O. IX
22-1011-310 10-11-2022  T.S.O. XII
22-1011-311 10-11-2022  T.S.O. I
22-1011-312 10-11-2022  T.S.O. I
22-1011-313 10-11-2022  50.35 -
                        50.38
                        150.35 -
22-1108-315 11 8-2022   150.43,
                        150.99
22-1108-317 11-8-2022   154.003,
                        154.130
                        150.55 -
22-1108-318 11-8-2022   150.58,
                        150.99
23-0110-320 1-10-2023   Adopting Ordinance
23-0110-321 1-10-2023   T.S.O. IX
23-0124-322 1-24-2023   T.S.O. I
23-0214-323 2-14-2023   T.S.O. I
                        52.044,
23-0228-324 2-28-2023   53.025,
                        54.079,
                        55.170
23-0314-325 3-14-2023   51.15
23-0425-327 4-25-2023   T.S.O. I
23-0425-328 4-25-2023   T.S.O. IX
23-0509-329 5-9-2023    T.S.O. XII
23-0509-330 5-9-2023    T.S.O. I
23-0509-331 5-9-2023    T.S.O. I
                        32.003,
23-0613-332 6-13-2023   32.126,
                        34.11,
                        35.13
23-0725-335 7-25-2023   51.18
                        Ch. 76, Schs.
23-0725-336 7-25-2023   I,
                        III
23-0808-338 8-8-2023    T.S.O. I
23-0808-339 8-8-2023    Ch. 76, Sch. III
                        154.130,
23-0822-340 8-22-2023   154.130.1 -
                        154.130.3,
                        154.131
23-1010-341 10-10-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1010-342 10-10-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1010-343 10-10-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1010-344 10-10-2023  154.079
23-1024-345 10-24-2023  53.032
23-1024-346 10-24-2023  94.001 -
                        94.005
23-1024-347 10-24-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1024-348 10-24-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1114-349 11-14-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1128-350 11-28-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1128-351 11-28-2023  T.S.O. I
23-1212-353 12-12-2023  37.60
23-0109-354 1-9-2024    T.S.O. I
24-0109-355 1-9-2024    35.15
24-0213-356 2-13-2024   T.S.O. I
24-0213-357 2-13-2024   Ch. 77, Sch. I
24-0213-358 2-13-2024   33.140 -
                        33.144
24-0227-359 2-27-2024   92.036,
                        92.052
24 0326-360 3-26-2024   T.S.O. XII
24-0326-361 3-26-2024   T.S.O. I
24 0326-362 3-26-2024   T.S.O. IX
24-0423-363 4-23-2024   54.079,
                        55.170
                       
 
