FARMER CITY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1138, passed 3-3-25
State legislation current through Public Act 103-1082 of the 2024 Regular
Session
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 607
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF FARMER CITY, DeWITT COUNTY,
ILLINOIS.
      BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF FARMER CITY, DeWITT COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
      SECTION 1: That the City of Farmer City, DeWitt County, Illinois desires
to codify and make more understandable and organized the various ordinances
adopted by said City.
      SECTION 2: The corporate authorities of the City of Farmer City hereby
find that it is in the best interests of the residents of said City of Farmer
City and for their welfare that said Code of Ordinances be adopted.
      SECTION 3: The City Clerk of the City of Farmer City is hereby directed
to file a certified copy of this Ordinance, to publish in pamphlet form and
record as required by Illinois Law and to take such further action as required
by Illinois Law and to take such further action as is necessary to complete
annexation of the described tracts.
      SECTION 4: All provisions of Ordinances shall be as setforth in said Code
and any portion or portions of Ordinances in conflict therewith are hereby
expressly repealed.
      SECTION 5: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and approval.
      PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 5th day of October, 1992
                                          VOTE:
                                          AYES: Newberry, Tharp, Walsh,
                                              Wells, Whitehouse
                                          NAYS: None
   ATTEST:
   Ann McConkey /s/                           J. Williard McKinley /s/
   City Clerk                               Mayor
Ordinance No.
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FARMER CITY, ILLINOIS
Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1993 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Farmer
City, which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
Whereas, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the State of Illinois Code; and
Whereas, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois.
Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the City Council, City of Farmer City:
Section 1: That the 1993 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Farmer City, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2: This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage by the City Council, and its publication in pamphlet form in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community.
Approved this 15th day of November, 1993.
Maurice Miller /s/                   Thomas J. Mikulecky /s/
Mayor                     Attest:   Acting City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Corporate seal
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Farmer City shall be
designated as the Code of Farmer City and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future  legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Farmer City,
Illinois.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. DeWitt County, Illinois.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance
of such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If an Ill. Rev. Stat. cite is included in the history, this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the
statute. Example: (Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80;
Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If an Ill. Rev. Stat. cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 116, §§ 201 et
seq.
§ 10.19 CITY SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form, and be so
constructed as to impress upon paper the words, "Official Seal" in a circle
formed by the words, "City Council of the City of Farmer City, Illinois. The
seal shall be, and remain, in the custody of the City Clerk, and his successors
in office, to be used by him in all cases provided for by the ordinances of the
city, or the laws of the state; or any state or nation, when the use of the
corporate seal of the city becomes necessary.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-4-1890)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND PROCEDURES
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
      
33.   PROCUREMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
      
36.   (RESERVED)
      
37.   BUDGETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES
      
38.   ZONING COMMISSION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND PROCEDURES
Section
Name and Boundaries
   
30.001   Name of city
   
30.002   Boundaries
Powers
   
30.015   Powers of city
   
30.016   Construction of rules
Form of Government
   
30.030   Form of government
   
30.031   City Council
   
30.032   (Reserved)
   
30.033   Mayor
   
30.034   Clerk and Treasurer appointment and removal
   
30.035   (Reserved)
   
30.036   (Reserved)
   
30.037   Vacancies
   
30.038   Qualifications of officer
City Council
   
30.050   Purpose
   
30.051   Meetings
   
30.052   Quorum
   
30.053   Record of proceedings
   
30.054   Meetings to be public
   
30.055   (Reserved)
   
30.056   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.057   Vote required
   
30.058   Interference in administration
   
30.059   Code of ethics
City Manager
   
30.060   Office created; appointment
   
30.061   Oath of office and bond
   
30.062   Compensation
   
30.063   Powers and duties
Powers and Duties of Officers
   
30.070   Mayor
   
30.071   City Clerk
   
30.072   Treasurer
   
30.073   Deputy City Clerk
   
30.074   Deputy City Treasurer
Elections
   
30.085   City elections
   
30.086   Regulations of elections
   
30.087   Canvass of returns
   
30.088   Tie votes
   
30.089   Commencement of terms of office
   
30.090   Oath of office
   
30.091   Nominations
   
30.092   Nonpartisan election
Vacancies in Office
   
30.105   What creates a vacancy
   
30.106   Filling vacancies
Ordinances
   
30.120   Ordaining clause
   
30.121   Powers to regulate
   
30.122   Adoption by Council
   
30.123   Effective date of nonemergency ordinance
Standing Rules
   
30.135   Meetings
   
30.136   Order of business
   
30.137   Agenda
   
30.138   New business
   
30.139   Presiding officer
   
30.140   Manner of voting
   
30.141   Reconsideration
   
30.142   Ad hoc committees
   
30.143   Standing committees
   
30.144   Resolutions
   
30.145   Preparation of ordinances
   
30.146   Enforcement of decorum
   
30.147   Suspension of rules
   
30.148   Rules of procedure
   
30.149   Electronic attendance
Travel and Meeting Expenses for
Mayor and Councilmembers
   
30.160   Payment for travel and meetings; approval; purpose
   
30.161   Criteria for reimbursement
   
30.162   Additional attendance expenses
   
30.163   Expense reports; receipts
   
30.164   Travel advances
Gift Ban Provisions
   
30.170   Adoption of act
   
30.171   Ethics officer
   
30.172   Ethics Commission; complaints
   
30.173   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
§ 30.001 NAME OF CITY.
   The municipality of the City of Farmer City, DeWitt County, Illinois, shall
continue to be a municipal corporation with the name Farmer City.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.002 BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory encompassed by its boundaries as of
June 1, 1990, or as they are hereafter modified pursuant to law. The custodian
of the city’s records shall keep an accurate, up-to-date description of the
boundaries. The copies and descriptions shall be available for public
inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
POWERS
§ 30.015 POWERS OF CITY.
   The city has all powers which the constitutions, statutes and common law of
the United States and of this state expressly or impliedly grant or allow
municipalities as fully as though this chapter specifically enumerated each of
those powers.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.016 CONSTRUCTION OF RULES.
   In this chapter no mention of a particular power shall be construed to be
exclusive or to restrict the scope of the powers which the city would have if
the particular power were not mentioned. This chapter
shall be liberally construed to the end that the city may have all powers
necessary or convenient for the conduct of its municipal affairs, including all
powers that cities may assume pursuant to state laws.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
30.017 DISTRIBUTION OF POWER.
   Except as state statute prescribes otherwise and as the Illinois
Constitution reserves municipal legislative power to the voters of the city,
all powers of the city are vested in the City Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.030 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The city shall operate under the managerial form of municipal government as
provided for in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.031 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall be elected at large and shall consist of a Mayor and
four Councilmembers according to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-2-12. The powers of
the council or board shall be purely legislative, except as may be otherwise
provided by state law. The council shall approve for payment of all expenses
and liabilities of the municipality (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-6).
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.032 (RESERVED)
§ 30.033 MAYOR.
   The Mayor, is the Chief Executive Officer of the municipality. He is elected
at large and shall be elected for a term of four years.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.034 CLERK AND TREASURER APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City
Council from time to time by majority vote, after the City Manager has
presented
a recommendation concerning a person or persons to serve in such offices.
   (B)   The City Clerk or City Treasurer are subject to removal by the
appointing authority, at any time.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 806, passed 11-1-04)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization of appointment of clerk and treasurer, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 5-2-19
§ 30.035 (RESERVED)
§ 30.036 (RESERVED)
§ 30.037 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor or Councilmember, the remaining
members of the City Council, within 60 days after the vacancy occurs, shall
fill the vacancy by appointment of some person to the office for the balance of
the unexpired term or until the vacancy is filled by interim election following
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50, and until the successor is elected and has
qualified.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.038 QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICER.
   (A)   To be eligible for an elective city office, a person must be a
qualified elector within the meaning of the state constitution and have resided
in the city during the past year immediately preceding their election. For
purposes of this division, CITY means the area included in the corporate limits
as of the date of the election.
   (B)   To serve as an Alderman elected from a ward, the candidate must have
resided within the ward he or she seeks to represent for six months immediately
preceding the last day available for filing for election or appointment and
must continue to reside in the ward throughout his or her term of office.
   (C)   Removal of an officer’s principal residency from the city or from the
area he or she represents shall create a vacancy in the office for which
elected, to be filled in the manner other vacancies in that office are filled.
   (D)   No city employee or appointive officer may serve on the City Council.
   (E)   A city office holder may not be in arrears in payment of any tax or
any other indebtedness to the city.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in the Charter, the Council is the final
judge of the qualifications and election of its own members.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.050 PURPOSE.
   It shall be the purpose of the City Council to make or create those policies
necessary for the effective operation of the city. Those policies shall take
the form of ordinances, resolutions or motions, whichever is appropriate for
the situation. The Council shall also be responsible for a continuous review of
policies in effect, to see that they are applicable, current and effective for
the operation of the city and the well being of its citizens. No policy shall
be deemed to be in effect unless explicitly approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.051 MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall hold one meeting each month on the first Monday in
the months of January, February and December. Two meetings shall be held in the
months of March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October and
November. Such meetings shall be held at the Council Chambers in City Hall, 105
S. Main Street, Farmer City, Illinois, or such other location as the City
Council by motion shall determine.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 754, passed 1-8-01; Am. Ord. 931, passed
12-2-13)
§ 30.052 QUORUM.
   A majority of the incumbent members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for its business, but a smaller number may meet and compel the
attendance of absent members in the manner provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.053 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The City Council shall cause a record of its proceedings to be kept in a
manner consistent with state law.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.054 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All deliberations and proceedings of the City Council shall be public except
as otherwise authorized by state law.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.055 (RESERVED)
§ 30.056 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   If a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor incapacitates him from the
performance of his duties but does not create a vacancy in the office, the City
Council shall appoint a Mayor Pro Tem from one of its members. In the Mayor’s
absence from a Council meeting, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside over it.
Whenever the Mayor is unable to perform the functions of his office, the Mayor
Pro Tem shall act as Mayor.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.057 VOTE REQUIRED.
   Except as state statute otherwise provides, the express concurrence of a
majority of the members of the City Council voting when a quorum of the Council
is present at the Council meeting, shall be necessary to decide any question
before the Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.058 INTERFERENCE IN ADMINISTRATION.
   Elected officials of the city shall not coerce or attempt to coerce any city
employee in carrying out the duties of the office; or coerce or attempt to
coerce any city employee in making an appointment or in removal of an officer
or employee or in purchasing equipment, services or supplies; or attempt to
exact a promise relative to an appointment from any candidate. The Mayor and
members of the City Council may however discuss matters of city administration
as part of the Council’s regular agenda. This regulation shall not alter the
responsibilities of any city officials as otherwise provided for in this
chapter. A violation of this section may occasion the censure of the offending
member of the Council by the Council, or removal from office by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.059 CODE OF ETHICS.
   Elected and appointed officials of the city will maintain the highest
standards of ethical and legal behavior that are expected and respected by the
citizens of the city. The City Council may therefore consider and adopt a code
of ethics, detailing such standards and the actions that the Council might take
in response to any violations of the code.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
CITY MANAGER
§ 30.060 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   The office of City Manager is created. The City Council shall appoint a City
Manager, who shall be the administrative head (chief administrative officer) of
the municipal government and shall be responsible for the efficient
administration of all departments. The City Manager shall be appointed, without
regard to his or her political beliefs, for an indefinite term by a majority of
the City Council. The City Manager need not be a resident of the city. The City
Manager may at any time be removed from office by a majority vote of the
members of the City Council.
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.061 OATH OF OFFICE AND BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of City Manager, the appointee shall
take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation required by the Illinois
Constitution.
   (B)   The City Manager shall furnish a bond in such amount and with such
surety as may be approved by the corporate authorities, such bond to be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. The cost of the
bond shall be paid by the city. The bond of the City Manager may be part of a
blanket bond.
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.062 COMPENSATION.
   The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the corporate
authorities shall from time to time establish. The conditions of the City
Manager’s appointment may be set forth in an agreement, although such agreement
may not limit the City Manager’s appointment to a definite term nor shall any
such agreement extend beyond the term of the then-sitting Mayor.
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.063 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have the duty and is empowered to:
      (1)   Exercise all powers and duties set forth by statute;
      (2)   Perform such duties as directed by the City Council that are not in
conflict with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-1-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Enforce the law within the city, insofar as such enforcement is
within the powers of the city;
      (4)   Appoint and remove all employees, including supervisors and
department heads. No appointment shall be made upon any basis other than that
of merit and fitness;
      (5)   Designate himself or herself or another employee to perform the
duties of any officer or position which is vacant or which lacks proper
administration;
      (6)   Exercise control of all departments, divisions; including the
direction, appointment, assignment and dismissal of all employees as is
necessary to the proper functioning of the city;
      (7)   Appoint and remove all officers who are not required to be elected
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 3.1, including but not limited to the corporation counsel,
City Attorney and City Prosecutor;
      (8)   Have all the powers and exercise all the duties granted by Illinois
Compiled Statutes to city clerks and comptrollers with respect to the
preparation of a report of estimated funds necessary to defray the expenses of
the city for the fiscal year for the consideration of the corporate authorities
prior to the preparation of the annual appropriation ordinance;
      (9)   Attend all meetings of the City Council with the right to take part
in discussions, but with no right to vote;
      (10)   Recommend to the City Council for adoption such measures as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient;
      (11)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5 or that may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the City Council;
      (12)   Exercise all the powers and duties provided for in ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5 as budget officer;
      (13)   Investigate complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed;
      (14)   Examine all proposed contracts to which the city may be a party
and sign on behalf of the city any contract authorized by the City Council,
except where the Council directs that another officer do so, and see that the
terms of any contract to which the city is a party are fully performed by all
parties thereto;
      (15)   Serve as the general purchasing agent of the city and make all
purchases of supplies, materials, and equipment authorized by the Council, in
the manner prescribed by law and subject to limitations imposed by law and by
the city’s appropriation or budget ordinance;
      (16)   Keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
city and the location of such property and be responsible for the care and
custody of all city property that is not assigned to another officer or body
for care and control; and
      (17)   Designate in writing an administrative official of the city to act
as city manager during his or her absence from the city and file such
designation with the City Clerk.
   (B)   In the event that ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 shall be amended to change the
powers and duties of the City Manager, the provisions of this section shall
likewise be deemed to be amended so that the City Manager’s powers and duties
are the maximum permitted by law.
(Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
§ 30.070 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected from the city at large and shall:
      (1)   Be the chief executive officer of the city;
      (2)   Preside at all meetings of the Council and be entitled to vote on
all issues that come before the Council, but have no power to veto;
      (3)   Be recognized as the official head of the city by the courts for
the purpose of serving legal process and by the Governor for all legal
purposes;
      (4)   Be the local liquor control commissioner, and be charged with the
administration of the appropriate provisions of the state liquor control act,
or this chapter, and of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations
relating to alcoholic liquor as hereinafter may be adopted. Whenever in this
chapter the commissioner shall be referred to, it shall include such other
persons as may be appointed by the commissioner to assist in the performance of
the commissioner’s duties hereunder (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2);
      (5)   Represent the city at ceremonial occasions (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
5-2-12(j));
      (6)   With the approval and consent of the Council, appoint members of
those boards, committees, and commissions where the Mayor is directed to make
appointments by statute, ordinance or resolution;
      (7)   Remove appointed board, committee, and commission members on formal
charges; and
      (8)   Serve when appointed or elected to serve on intergovernmental
agency boards, commissions or committees to represent the interests of the
city.
   (B)   The Mayor may, as provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-30, may
designate another to affix his or her signature to any written instrument that
requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send written notice of this
designation to the City Council stating the name of the person selected and
what instrument(s) that person will have the authority to sign.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 756, passed 4-16-01)
§ 30.071 CITY CLERK.
   Duties, including the statutory duties appearing in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 and
those contained elsewhere in this code, imposed upon the City Clerk are as
follows:
   (A)   To publish all proceedings of, and all ordinances, by statute required
to be published, and which are passed by the Council in the official
publication of the city, within ten days of the approval thereof;
   (B)   To keep an index of all Council proceedings, and of all ordinances and
resolutions presented or passed, and of all petitions filed;
   (C)   To issue and sign all licenses except liquor licenses, subject to the
requirements of applicable law, and to keep an accurate record thereof;
   (D)   To serve or cause to be served all notices, which are required by
statutes, ordinance, or order of the Mayor or City Council to be served in the
manner required by law, unless some other person is given the duty to serve a
notice by statute or ordinance;
   (E)   To act as the sole custodian of the city seal;
   (F)   To keep a complete and accurate file of the official papers and
documents of the city and to arrange the same in systematic order for ready
reference;
   (G)   To countersign all contracts, bonds or other agreements in writing, or
evidence of indebtedness, made in the name of the city and by authority of the
City Council;
   (H)   To keep a list of all committees, boards and commissions and of the
business from time to time referred to them respectively, and a memorandum of
all reports made by them;
   (I)   To perform all, and such duties as are, from time to time imposed upon
the City Clerk by the Council;
   (J)   To keep a record of all the maps, plats and subdivisions of the
property within the boundaries of the city; and, to be the custodian of the
city plat book; and
   (K)   To keep a record of all ordinances and resolutions of the city.
(Ord. 806, passed 11-1-04)
§ 30.072 TREASURER.
   Duties, including the statutory duties appearing in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 and
those contained elsewhere in this code, imposed upon the City Treasurer are as
follows:
   (A)   Prepare and file with the City Clerk within six months after the end
of the fiscal year an account of monies received and expenditures incurred
during the proceeding fiscal year in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-
35-56.
   (B)   Upon authorization by the City Council, by passage of a claim
ordinance related thereto, to pay all vouchers and warrants.
   (C)   To keep a record of all warrants or vouchers drawn on the city,
stating the date, number and amount thereof, to whom payable, and against what
city fund drawn.
   (D)   Pursuant to such investment policies as may from time to time be
approved by the City Council, to deposit the money of the city in any
authorized depository.
(Ord. 806, passed 11-1-04)
§ 30.073 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   In the absence of the City Clerk, any deputy city clerk appointed by the
City Council from time to time by majority vote, after the City Manager has
presented a recommendation concerning such person or persons to serve in such
offices, shall have the duty to exercise any power vested in the City Clerk or
to perform any duty which the City Clerk is required to perform, unless
otherwise expressly provided in this code. The deputy clerks may execute
official documents as deputy clerk, and their signatures thereon shall have the
same effect as if signed by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 806, passed 11-1-04)
§ 30.074 DEPUTY CITY TREASURER.
   In the absence of the City Treasurer, any deputy city treasurer appointed by
the City Council from time to time by majority vote, after the City Manager has
presented a recommendation concerning such person or persons to serve in such
offices, shall have the duty to exercise any power vested in the City Treasurer
or to perform any duty which the City Treasurer is required to perform, unless
otherwise expressly provided in this code. The deputy treasurers may execute
official documents as deputy treasurer, and their signatures thereon shall have
the same effect as if signed by the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 806, passed 11-1-04)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.085 CITY ELECTIONS.
   Regular city elections shall be held at the same times and places as the
general biennial elections for the state, in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.086 REGULATIONS OF ELECTIONS.
   Except as this chapter provides relating to elections, the general laws of
the state shall apply to all city elections.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.087 CANVASS OF RETURNS.
   In all elections held in conjunction with state and county elections, the
state laws governing the filing of returns by the County Clerk shall apply. The
results of all elections shall be filed with the City Clerk. Within five days
after the results of an election or appointment is made, the City Clerk shall
notify all persons elected or appointed to office, of their election or
appointment.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.088 TIE VOTES.
   In the event of a tie vote of candidates for an elective office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the City Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.089 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of a person elected to a city office at a regular
election commences at the first City Council meeting of May following the
proclamation of the results of the regular municipal election at which such
officers were elected.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.090 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before commencing the duties of office, each elective officer shall take an
oath or shall affirm faithful performance of the duties of the office and
support for the constitutions and laws of the United States and state.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.091 NOMINATIONS.
   Any candidate for an elective office may be nominated by filing with the
City Clerk a petition in such form as may be prescribed by state statute. The
signers of a petition for Alderman from a particular ward shall be legal voters
residing within that ward; but if the petition is for Mayor, Clerk or Treasurer
that petition may be signed by legal voters residing in any ward in the city.
Subject to the requirements of this section, a legal voter may sign more than
one nominating petition for the same office. No candidate for office may file
for more than one elective city position.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.092 NONPARTISAN ELECTION.
   A nonpartisan election shall be as hereafter provided by the constitution or
general laws of the state regulating elections, and on the day and month fixed
for such elections. The candidate who receives the majority of the votes cast
at the election for the office is elected to that office.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
VACANCIES IN OFFICE
§ 30.105 WHAT CREATES A VACANCY.
   (A)   An office becomes vacant upon the incumbent’s:
      (1)   Death;
      (2)   Adjudicated incompetence or conviction of a crime of a nature which
by state law, disqualifies a person from holding public office;
      (3)   Resignation;
      (4)   Ceasing to posses the qualifications for office; or
      (5)   Failure, following ten days after notice of election or appointment
to the office to qualify.
   (B)   An office becomes vacant upon declaration by the Council of the
vacancy in case of the incumbent’s:
      (1)   Termination of residency in the city;
      (2)   Termination of a City Council member’s principal residency in the
area he or she represents; or
      (3)   Absence from Council meetings for any reason other than illness or
injury, for a consecutive 30-day period without the Council’s consent.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.106 FILLING VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in the City Council shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor
with advice and consent of the Council. The appointee’s term shall begin
immediately upon his or her appointment and qualification and shall continue
through until the next regular election. The election will then fulfill the
unexpired term of the vacant office.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.120 ORDAINING CLAUSE.
   The ordaining clause of an ordinance shall be: “Be it ordained, by the City
Council of the city of Farmer City as follows.”
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.121 POWERS TO REGULATE.
   The City Council has the authority to pass ordinances and make all rules and
regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers granted to the
city, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed proper. No fine or penalty
except civil penalties for failure to make returns or pay any taxes levied by
the city shall exceed limits set by state statute.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.122 ADOPTION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   An ordinance may be enacted at a single meeting of the City Council by
unanimous vote of all Councilmembers, upon being read by title only unless
otherwise provided by statute. If a request is made by any Councilmember for
the ordinance to be read in full, the ordinance shall be read fully and
distinctly prior to vote on the ordinance. No ordinance may be considered for
approval in a single meeting, upon reading by title only, unless at least three
days before the reading a copy of the ordinance was provided for each
Councilmember and three copies of the ordinance were available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk, and notice of the availability of
the ordinance was posted at city hall.
   (B)   If, after first reading of the ordinance in full or by title, the
Council does not unanimously approve adoption of the ordinance, the ordinance
shall be brought back to the Council for a second reading at the next regular
Council meeting. The second reading may be by title only, unless a
Councilmember requests that the ordinance be read in full and a majority of the
Council concurs that the ordinance should be read in full. Adoption of an
ordinance after second reading requires the express concurrence of a majority
of the members of the Council. If an ordinance fails to receive a majority
approval on first reading, it may be brought back to the Council only if a
majority of the City Council agrees to consider its possible adoption.
   (C)   An ordinance read by title only has no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to the reading unless each
section so differing is read fully and distinctly in open Council meeting
before the Council adopts the ordinance.
   (D)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the
Councilmembers shall be entered in the record of the Council proceedings.
   (E)   After adoption of an ordinance, the City Clerk shall endorse it with
the date of adoption and the endorser’s name and title of office. The Mayor
shall also sign the ordinance and include thereon the date of signing and the
title of office.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. passed 11- 15-93)
§ 30.123 EFFECTIVE DATE OF NONEMERGENCY ORDINANCE.
   A non-emergency ordinance takes effect as prescribed in the state statutes.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
STANDING RULES
§ 30.135 MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall hold two regular meetings each month. The regular
meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first and third Mondays of
each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Council Chambers in city hall, or such other
location as the City Council by motion shall determine.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Res. 2018-25, passed 12-10-18)
§ 30.136 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   In the conduct of the business of the City Council, the following
procedures shall be substantially followed
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Standing Committee meetings, third Monday;
      (4)   Presentation of minutes;
      (5)   Public comment;
         (a)   Limitations. The Mayor may impose reasonable limitations on the
citizen participation at City Council meetings such as barring repetitious,
irrelevant, immaterial, or inappropriate comments or testimony. The Mayor
reserves the right to halt or suspend the public forum.
         (b)   Persons wishing to speak. Persons (petitioner) wishing to speak
during the public comment section of the city posted agenda shall sign in
before the start of the meeting stating name, address and topic to be
discussed. All speakers (petitioner) shall comply with the rules, which shall
be posted at the speaker sign in desk.
         (c)   All speakers (petitioner) shall be recognized by the Mayor and
shall have a five-minute limit to speak to Mayor and Council present. Public
participation after the petitioner's reply shall be prohibited unless the City
Council directs otherwise.
      (6)   Public hearings, if any;
      (7)   Agenda of action items;
      (8)   New business;
      (9)   Reports from standing committees;
      (10)   Presentation of bills, if any;
      (11)   Mayor’s administrative report;
      (12)   Communications, if any; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Breaks in the order of business may be taken at any time upon motion
and majority approval.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 943, passed 10-6-14)
§ 30.137 AGENDA.
   The agenda shall be set by Friday, 12:00 noon immediately preceding a City
Council meeting, and it shall be printed immediately thereafter and distributed
to the Mayor and Council, and posted and made available to the public by 2:00
p.m. that afternoon. Any items not incorporated in that agenda may only be
considered under the new business section of the agenda. Agenda items shall be
described in clear, complete and straight-forward language.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.138 NEW BUSINESS.
   Items that may be brought up for discussion under the new business section
of the agenda are those items that could not have been anticipated in time to
be placed and described on the regular agenda, or are of such an emergency
nature that action is required.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.139 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Presiding Officer shall be the Mayor. The Mayor shall be deemed a member
of the Council and shall have rights as established by state statute.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.140 MANNER OF VOTING.
   All questions shall be voted on by roll call (in alphabetic order for the
first motion of each meeting and rotating in alphabetic order with each
successive notion of the meeting). Every member who shall be present when a
question is put, shall vote for or against the same, unless the City Council
shall excuse him.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.141 RECONSIDERATION.
   When a question has been decided, it shall be in order for any member who
voted in the majority to move for a reconsideration thereof; but no motion for
the reconsideration of a vote shall be made after the ordinance, resolution or
act has gone out of the possession of the City Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.142 AD HOC COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint with approval of the City Council, from among the
members of the Council and general public, members of ad hoc committees, when
the need for a committee arises.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.143 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint with approval the City Council, members of
standing committees at two year intervals, which correspond with the election
of Alderman. Each committee shall consist of at least three Alderman (one from
each ward). The committee will elect a chairperson of the committee from it’s
appointed Alderman members. Committee reports will state the problem,
alternatives to problem resolution, and their recommendation to the council
during committee reports as scheduled on the agenda. Each committee will
receive a department report on progress of current projects and suggestions for
future projects. The committees are advisors to the council and their prime
function is policy review and recommendation. The committee may request an
employee to be present at a committee meeting.
Committees are to receive any information needed to carry out their duties.
Committee members may request information from city employees as necessary to
carry out their responsibilities. Committee may by majority vote, request the
presence of the City Attorney at committee meetings.
   (B)   The standing committees are as follows:
      (1)   Finance, Administration and Personnel Policies.
      (2)   Public Works-Electric, Sewer, Streets and Water Departments.
      (3)   Emergency Services-Police and Ambulance Departments.
      (4)   Public Properties, Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   Committees that are made up of a majority of council members must
follow the Illinois Open Meetings Act. The Act requires notification to all
news media having a request letter on file of any such committee meeting at
least 48 hours in advance. The agenda must be posted in a public area 48 hours
prior to any such meeting. Minutes need to be taken of all committees and
placed on file with the City Clerk within seven days of the committee meeting,
and made available for public inspection within seven days of approval by the
City Council.
   (D)   Committees will follow council rules for conduct of meetings. The
chairperson of each committee is responsible for scheduling each meeting,
conducting the meetings in accordance with acceptable procedures, notifying the
City Clerk to notify committee members, and keep minutes of the meetings.
Committees should take and record votes taken on policy recommendations to the
council.
   (E)   Names and responsibilities of standing committees many be changed as
necessary to meet the changing needs of the city by a two-thirds vote of the
City Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. 646, passed 5-1-95)
§ 30.144 RESOLUTIONS.
   All resolutions shall be in writing consecutively in the order in which they
are received.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.145 PREPARATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances appearing on a City Council agenda shall have been reported
to the City Council by a committee of the City Council. Ordinances shall have
been reviewed by the City Attorney prior to consideration by the City Council.
Should a committee fail to report an ordinance, the City Council, by majority
vote, may pull an ordinance from committee and place it on the City Council
agenda for consideration.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-93)
§ 30.146 ENFORCEMENT OF DECORUM.
   The Chief of Police, or such member or members of the Police Department as
he may designate, shall be Sergeant-at-Arms of the City Council meetings.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.147 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   No standing rule or order of the City Council shall be rescinded or
suspended except by the unanimous vote of every member present.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.148 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The rules of procedure shall be set by the Mayor and City Council, and
interpreted by the Mayor during the course of meetings. Should the Council wish
to establish rules of procedure, it shall do so by majority vote, after which
such rules shall be governing unless changed by majority vote of the Council.
(Ord. 568a, passed 3-18-91)
§ 30.149 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Rules statement. It is the decision of the city that the Mayor and any
member of the City Council ("Council") may attend any open or closed meeting of
the Council via electronic means (such as by telephone, video or internet
connection) provided that such attendance is in compliance with these rules and
any applicable laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. A member of the Council may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The member should notify the City Clerk at least three hours before
the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can
be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result
in denial of a request for remote attendance.
      (2)   The member must assert one of the following four reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting;
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the city;
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency;
or
         (d)   The member cannot attend because of unexpected childcare
obligations.
   (C)   Authorization to participate.
      (1)   The City Clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance request,
shall inform the Council of the request for electronic attendance.
      (2)   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the Council desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that (i) a notice was received from a member of
the Council in accordance with these rules, and (ii) the member will be deemed
authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to
the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded and approved by two-thirds
of the members of the Council physically present at the meeting. If no such
motion is made and seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve the required
vote by the members of the Council physically present at the meeting, then the
request by the member to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed
approved by the Council and the presiding officer shall declare the requesting
member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer, the question
of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the Council must be able to communicate effectively, and
members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting
site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the Council shall
provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
offsite attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   (F)   Rights of remote member.
      (1)   A member permitted to attend electronically will be able to express
his or her comments during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as
those members physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and
procedures previously adopted and adhered to. The member attending
electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote taken.
Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically shall be called
during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the City
Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
      (2)   If the Mayor is attending the meeting electronically, a member who
is physically present shall be chosen by a majority of the corporate
authorities attending the meeting to preside over the meeting. Such member
shall have only the rights and duties of a presiding officer, not mayor pro
tem, and shall be entitled to vote only as a member. The mayor shall retain his
right to vote as provided by applicable law.
   (G)   Committees, boards, and commissions. These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the Council.
(Ord. 1128, passed 9-3-24)
TRAVEL AND MEETING EXPENSES FOR MAYOR
AND COUNCILMEMBERS
§ 30.160 PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL AND MEETINGS; APPROVAL; PURPOSE.
   The City Council will pay the expenses of the Mayor and Councilmembers
(referred to in this subchapter as “members”) who attend municipal association,
organizational and training meetings, providing attendance is approved
beforehand by the City Council. The meeting attendance shall be for the purpose
of education, information and the exchanging of experiences in municipal
operations.
(Ord. 594, passed 1-20-92)
§ 30.161 CRITERIA FOR REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   Reimbursement limits. The city shall only reimburse the following
types of travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and
officers up to the following maximum allowable amounts:
      (1)   Travel: federal rate at the time.
      (2)   Hotel/motel: room rental expense.
      (3)   (a)   Meals: meals up to a maximum expenditure of $200 for any stay
exceeding two days and two nights, and $100 for any stay of less than two days.
         (b)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (C)   Reimbursement form required. No reimbursement of travel, meal or
lodging expenses incurred by a city employee or officer shall be authorized
unless the “Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form,”
attached to Ord. 973 and made a part thereof, has been submitted and approved.
(A copy of this form is available for public inspection during normal business
hours in the office of the City Clerk.) All documents and information submitted
with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information
Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.).
   (D)   Reimbursement approval. Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of (I)
any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under
the regulations adopted under division (B) above or (ii) any member of the
corporate authorities of the city may only be approved by roll call vote at an
open meeting of the corporate authorities of the city. However, in the event of
an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the corporate authorities
may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   Entertainment not reimbursable. The city shall not reimburse any
elected official, employee, or officer for any activities which would be
considered entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered
entertainment, but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due
to being ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 594, passed 1-20-92; Am. Ord. 973, passed 1-23-17)
§ 30.162 ADDITIONAL ATTENDANCE EXPENSES.
   Members shall be entitled to attend up to two meetings each year of the
Central Illinois Municipal Officials’ Association (CIMOA) expenses for the meal
only. Any additional attendance expenses must be specifically authorized by the
City Council. The Mayor may attend an unlimited number of CIMOA meetings and be
reimbursed for meal costs.
(Ord. 594, passed 1-20-92)
§ 30.163 EXPENSE REPORTS; RECEIPTS.
   Reimbursement for any of the expenses allowable in §
30.161 will be on the basis of a report of expenses, and receipts for all
expenses to be reimbursed, fully made out by the vendor and acceptable to the
standard of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (hard receipts).
(Ord. 594, passed 1-20-92)
§ 30.164 TRAVEL ADVANCES.
   Travel advances may be made to the Mayor or a member of the City Council,
subject to all other limitations of this subchapter, and not for any amount
that might exceed limits of this subchapter. Should the Mayor or a member not
attend the meeting, he or she shall reimburse the city within 15 days for all
funds advanced. Exceptions to this provision may only be made by majority vote
of the City Council.
(Ord. 594, passed 1-20-92)
GIFT BAN PROVISIONS
§ 30.170 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425) is hereby adopted as
required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83.
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the State Gift Ban Act is prohibited by any elected or
appointed official or any employee of the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 10-6-03)
Editor’s note:
   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425) was repealed by P.A. 93-617.
Similar provisions can be found at ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.
§ 30.171 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 425, § 35, the City Manager is appointed to serve as the “ethics officer”
of the city. The ethics officer’s duties shall be as provided in ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 425, § 35 of the State Gift Ban Act.
(Ord. 786, passed 10-6-03)
Editor’s note:
   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425) was repealed by P.A. 93-617.
Similar provisions can be found at ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.
§ 30.172 ETHICS COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the State Gift Ban Act and this subchapter
shall be filed with the legislative ethics commission as created by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 425, § 45(a)(6).
(Ord. 786, passed 10-6-03)
Editor’s note:
   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425) was repealed by P.A. 93-617.
Similar provisions can be found at ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.
§ 30.173 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.)
that becomes effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this subchapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 10-6-03)
Editor’s note:
   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425) was repealed by P.A. 93-617.
Similar provisions can be found at ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
City Administrator
   
31.01   Creation of office
   
31.02   Appointment
   
31.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.04   Compensation and salary
Part-Time Police Officers
   
31.15   Standards for employment
Chief of Police
   
31.25   Job description
Patrolman
   
31.35   Job description
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.01 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   There is created and established the position of City Administrator.
This position replaces the former position of City Purchasing Agent. The
position shall be considered an exempt position rather than a classified
position of the city.
   (B)   As an exempt position, the office of City Administrator shall not be
subject to the provisions of the city personnel code.
   (C)   Matters related to compensation and benefits shall be subject to
annual negotiation among the Mayor, City Council and City Administrator. All
salary and benefit provisions shall be subject to approval of the City Council.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall have qualifications substantially
equivalent to those of a City Manager, including educational and professional
training and/or experience in administrative and management principles and
procedures.
(Ord. 544, passed 9-6-88)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Administrator shall be selected for an annual term by a majority
vote of the City Council. The City Administrator may be removed from office for
nonfeasance, malfeasance, breach of his contract, violation of the statutes of
the state or at will of the City Council. At the time of the City
Administrator’s appointment, the City Administrator need not be a resident of
the city.
(Ord. 544, passed 9-6-88; Am. Ord. 744, passed 10-2-00)
§ 31.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Administrator shall represent the city in dealings with citizens,
service and supply vendors, civic groups, other governmental agencies and shall
act as the principal intermediary between the Mayor, City Council and all city
employees. The City Administrator shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
   (A)   To aid and assist the Mayor and City Council in the formulation and
development of policies, programs and procedures, to supervise and administer
the implementation of such policies, programs and procedures as established by
the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   To assist the Mayor and City Council in appointing and removing
supervisors and in the employment and termination of all city employees.
   (C)   To prepare and recommend an annual budget as budget officer, to
prepare written reports and documents at the direction of the Mayor and City
Council, to include but not limited to an annual operating and long range
capital improvement program.
   (D)   To actively pursue the economic development of the city, to apply and
obtain state and federal grants and to disseminate sufficient information
relating to the business of the city.
   (E)   To supervise the work of all municipal employees, including the
supervisors of all city departments; to direct the general operations and
business of all departments and divisions of the city to provide for
communications within the city among the various departments and divisions; and
to provide for coordinated planning of the various activities and duties
thereof, provided that nothing herein shall be construed to remove direction
and supervision vested in the City Treasurer or City Clerk by statute or
ordinance, nor shall this subchapter be construed as altering the lawful powers
and duties of the Mayor and City Council.
   (F)   To perform such other duties as may be directed by the Mayor and City
Council.
(Ord. 544, passed 9-6-88)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION AND SALARY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall receive a salary of $2,700 per annum.
   (B)   Each Alderman shall receive a salary of $75 per meeting for each
regular meeting and special meeting of the City Council actually attended by
him or her. No pay will be paid for committee meetings.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall receive a salary of $750 per annum.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall receive a salary of $50 per meeting for each
regular meeting and special meeting of the City Council actually attended by
him or her.
   (E)   The City Attorney shall receive a reasonable compensation for services
performed by at the direction of the Mayor, City Administrator or City Council.
   (F)   Each city official may choose to be paid semi-annually or annually, at
current rates of pay as described above in this section.
(Ord. 569, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 993, passed 12-5-17; Am. Ord. 1014, passed
10-15-18)
PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS
§ 31.15 STANDARDS FOR EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employment. The City of Farmer City may employ part-time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Farmer City Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorable discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Section 32.130 Formal Disciplinary Action covered in the
Code of Ordinance for the City of Farmer City. Part-time police officers shall
comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 903, passed 5-7-12)
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 31.25 JOB DESCRIPTION.
   Performs police work for the protection of the public welfare and safety
through the enforcement of laws and ordinances. Exercises administrative
authority over all department personnel, facilities and activities. Is directly
responsible to the City Administrator, and must be bondable. Informs the Mayor
of his suggestion of a patrolman to act as Chief of Police should the Chief of
Police be absent or unable to work. Appointment as “Acting Chief of Police”
shall be effective immediately upon written designation as “Acting Chief of
Police” by the Mayor until the next regular City Council meeting, at which time
the City Council shall act on the appointment.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-15-99; Am. Ord. 744, passed 10-2-00)
PATROLMAN
§ 31.35 JOB DESCRIPTION.
   Performs general duty police work for the protection of the public welfare
and safety through the enforcement of the laws and ordinances. Is directly
responsible to the Chief of Police, or in his absence, to the “Acting Chief
Police” when so appointed by the Mayor, until a formal appointment is made by
the City Council. The person is this position must be bondable.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-15-99)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
Section
Introduction
   
32.001   Purpose
   
32.002   Collective bargaining agreements
Terms and Conditions of Employment
   
32.015   Equal employment opportunity
   
32.016   Reasonable accommodation policy
   
32.017   Employee recruitment and selection
   
32.018   Employee personnel files
   
32.019   Background investigations/ reference checks
   
32.020   Employment classifications
   
32.021   Layoffs and recalls
   
32.022   Performance reviews
   
32.023   Code of conduct
   
32.024   Disciplinary action
   
32.025   Non-union grievance procedure
   
32.026   Attendance
   
32.027   Appearance standards
   
32.028   Residency requirements
   
32.029   Outside employment
   
32.030   Substance abuse policy
   
32.031   Worker's compensation
   
32.032   Injury/accident reporting
   
32.033   Harassment policy
   
32.034   Workplace violence policy
   
32.035   Gift policy
   
32.036   Use of city property policy
   
32.037   Technology resources policy
   
32.038   City credit card policy
   
32.039   City vehicle policy
   
32.040   Cell phone/GPS policy
   
32.041   Cell phone allowance
   
32.042   Training, travel and tuition reimbursement
   
32.043   Smoking policy
Employee Compensation and Benefits
   
32.060   Wages
   
32.061   Change in personal status
   
32.062   Scheduling
   
32.063   Overtime
   
32.064   Emergency services
   
32.065   Vacation and paid time off
   
32.066   Holidays
   
32.067   Personal days
   
32.068   Rest/meal periods
   
32.069   Benefits/payroll deductions
   
32.070   Health and dental insurance
   
32.071   Personal benefits
   
32.072   Wage garnishment
   
32.073   Employee-incurred expenses/ reimbursement
   
32.074   Compensatory time in lieu of cash overtime
Employee Leaves of Absence
   
32.090   Sick leave
   
32.091   Light duty
   
32.092   Military leave
   
32.093   Bereavement leave
   
32.094   VESSA leave
   
32.095   Educational leave
   
32.096   Discretionary unpaid leave of absence
   
32.097   Jury duty
   
32.098   School Visitation Rights Act Leave
   
32.099   Inclement weather
Resignation, Termination or Retirement
   
32.110   Resignation
   
32.111   Termination
   
32.112   Retirement
   
32.113   Final paycheck
Administrative Procedure for Assessing
and Determining Claims Under PSEBA
   
32.125   Purpose
   
32.126   Application procedure
   
32.127   Administrative composition
   
32.128   Administrative hearing
 
   
Appendix:   Forms
§ 32.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The policies and procedures in this chapter are intended to provide
guidance and suggestions to employees and management as a method of assisting
employees in the performance of their job duties and responsibilities. The
chapter is not designed to cover every aspect of city operations. The contents
of this chapter are not contractual commitments and no policy guarantees the
continuity of an employee's benefits or rights. The city reserves the right to
remove, edit, or supplement the contents of this chapter, or completely
discontinue its use, at any time, with or without notice. Any violation of the
city's policies may result in discipline, up to and including termination,
regardless of the date of discovery.
   (B)   Neither the existence of any of these policies, nor anything contained
in this chapter is intended to create or shall create an employment contract or
contractual commitment, either expressed or implied. Unless otherwise provided
in a written contract of employment or applicable collective bargaining
agreement, employees of the city are employed "at will" and can be dismissed at
any time, with or without notice, and with or without cause.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.002 REGARDING COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The city negotiates collective bargaining agreements with approved
unions to ensure appropriate salary, benefits, and other conditions of
employment for all employees who are in a represented unit. When the policies
or procedures in this chapter differ from those in an existing collective
bargaining agreement, the collective bargaining agreement shall take precedence
over this chapter, but only in the areas where conflicting policies and
procedures are present.
   (B)   Those employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement are
considered at-will employees.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 32.015 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   The city is an equal opportunity employer. Qualifications for employment and
promotion are based upon ability to perform the job. Equal employment
opportunities are provided to all applicants and employees without regard to
actual or perceived age, ancestry, citizenship status, national origin,
religion, creed, sex, gender, gender identity, gender transitioning status,
sexual orientation, pregnancy (including childbirth and medical conditions
related to pregnancy and childbirth), marital status, disability (physical or
mental), genetic information, race, color, sealed or expunged arrest records
not resulting in conviction, military discharge or veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by law. Furthermore, no person will be discriminated
against due to a mental or physical disability which does not prevent the
individual from performing the essential functions of the job, with or without
reasonable accommodation. Everyone will be given equal opportunity commensurate
with their abilities. Laws regarding veteran's status will also be observed.
The city will earnestly seek the cooperation of all employees in helping to
maintain this policy. Throughout this chapter, the interchangeable use of
masculine and feminine pronouns is in no way intended to exclude members of the
opposite sex.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.016 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION POLICY.
   (A)   In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, it is
the policy of the city to provide reasonable accommodation for qualified
persons with disabilities who are either applicants or current employees,
unless the accommodation would create an undue hardship for the city.
"Reasonable accommodation" is the term for adjusting the structure of a job or
the work environment in a manner that will enable an individual with a
disability to perform the essential functions of the job.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, a "disability" includes any physical
or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life
activities including, but not limited to, caring for oneself, performing manual
tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, and working on a regular
basis.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.017 EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION.
   (A)   The city recruits both internal and external candidates for vacant
positions in an effort to fill these positions with the most qualified
applicants, based solely on the applicant's demonstrated and potential ability
to perform the essential job functions of the desired position. Applicants for
certain city positions may be subject to specific testing requirements as
determined by the respective department.
   (B)   Selection of a new employee from a pool of applicants is based on
factors including, but not limited to, relevant experience, education,
training, test results, reference and background checks, and other traits that
make the applicant more qualified for the position than other applicants.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.018 EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The City Clerk's office maintains a personnel file on every city
employee, which is to keep records confidential. Personnel records will only be
available to an employee's supervisor, the department head, the City Clerk, and
the City Manager.
   (B)   An employee may schedule an appointment with the City Clerk to examine
his or her personnel file. The personnel file is a part of an employee's
permanent record and may not be removed from the office of the City Clerk
pursuant to the Illinois Personnel Records Review Act, ILCS Ch. 820, Act 40, §
0.01 et seq.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.019 BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS/ REFERENCE CHECKS.
   (A)   A background check shall be completed on every new, regular employee
prior to employment. This may include inquiries into employment references,
educational references, and personal references for all applicants.
   (B)   A background investigation may also be required for newly hired
employees. An investigation may include checking criminal records and driving
records that are relevant to the desired position.
   (C)   Employment with the city may not continue until the background
investigation (if applicable) and the reference check have been completed.
These inquiries are necessary in order to ensure that the appropriate person
for the position is being hired.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.020 EMPLOYMENT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The city classifies employees in the following categories:
      (1)   Probationary employee. An employee is "probationary" for the first
12 months of employment. The city may discharge the employee with or without
cause during this probationary period.
      (2)   Regular full-time employee. An employee working the regularly
scheduled number of hours, or approximately 2,080 hours annually. As a regular
full-time employee, one becomes eligible for all benefits provided by the city.
      (3)   Regular part-time employee. An employee working under IMRF
guidelines may not exceed 1,000 hours annually.
      (4)   Temporary employee. An individual employed for a period of less
than six consecutive months. Temporary employees may work full-time or part-
time. IMRF requires all employees working over 1,000 hours per year to receive
retirement benefits. Therefore, by city policy, temporary employees shall not
be retained for more than 1,000 hours in any 12- month period.
      (5)   Volunteer. An individual who performs duties exclusively by choice,
not by request or legal obligation. A volunteer is not promised remuneration
for services and is exempt from receiving benefits.
   (B)   Provisions in the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 divide employees
into separate categories with respect to eligibility for overtime payment:
      (1)   Exempt. Employees who are not eligible to receive payment for
overtime. Exempt status often accompanies positions of a managerial,
administrative, or professional nature.
      (2)   Non-exempt. Employees who are eligible to receive payment for
overtime. Non-exempt status often accompanies positions of a clerical,
technical, or service nature.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.021 LAYOFFS AND RECALLS.
   (A)   Employment may be terminated by the City Manager due to a lack of
funds causing a reduction in staff or by elimination of the position and the
best interest of the citizens of Farmer City.
   (B)   In the case of personnel reduction, the employee with the least
seniority in the classification of the appropriate department shall be laid off
first. Employees shall be recalled, conditioned upon the ability to perform the
work available, in the order of their seniority. No new employees shall be
hired until all laid off employees have been given ample opportunity to return
to work and have returned to work with 30 days of written notice.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.022 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS.
   (A)   Employee performance reviews are to be completed by an employee's
supervisor or departmental director annually (on or about the employee's
anniversary date unless otherwise noted).
   (B)   The purposes of a performance review are:
      (1)   To evaluate an employee's job performance on a periodic basis,
while offering praise, guidelines for improvement, and other feedback.
      (2)   To set goals for the employee being evaluated to ensure improved
work performance and a more cohesive work environment.
      (3)   To provide an opportunity to discuss an employee's future
development.
      (4)   To provide an opportunity for open communication between employees
and their supervisors on a regular basis.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.023 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Employees of the city must act in a manner that stands up to the
closest public scrutiny. Each employee has responsibilities to various groups,
which include:
      (1)   The public.
      (2)   Elected officials who represent the public.
      (3)   Appointed authorities and those in supervisory roles.
      (4)   Fellow employees.
      (5)   Representatives of other agencies or organizations.
   (B)   These responsibilities require each employee to act with honor,
integrity, loyalty, and fairness in the performance of city business, while
also reporting improper, unethical, or unlawful behaviors as they occur.
Employees must comply with all applicable laws and regulations at all times.
Engaging in illegal or unethical behavior during the performance of an
employee's job duties will not be tolerated and the employee may be subject to
disciplinary or legal action.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.024 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   The city believes in the philosophy of progressive, corrective
discipline. The methods of disciplinary action shall include only the
following:
      (1)   Oral warning. An oral warning consists of a conference between the
employee and the employee's supervisor or other city official issuing the
warning. The purpose of the conference is to express disapproval of misconduct
or poor work performance, to clarify applicable rules or standards of
performance, policies, and procedures, and to warn that repetition of the
misconduct or failure to improve work performance may result in more severe
discipline. Records of oral warnings will be maintained in the employee's
personnel file indefinitely.
      (2)   Written warning. A written warning consists of a conference between
the employee and their supervisor or other city official who issued the
discipline, accompanied by a letter or notice expressing disapproval of the
misconduct or poor work performance, clarifying applicable rules, policies, and
procedures, and warning that repetition of the misconduct or failure to improve
work performance may result in more severe discipline. Written warnings may be
used for repeated misconduct of a minor nature or for more serious misconduct
that does not warrant suspension or discharge from employment.
         (a)   The employee will be given an opportunity to review the written
disciplinary letter and respond to it.
         (b)   The employee will receive a copy of the disciplinary notice and
copies of the notice shall be maintained in the employee's personnel file.
         (c)   Records of written warnings will be maintained in the employee's
personnel file indefinitely.
      (3)   Suspension. A suspension is a temporary removal from employment,
accompanied by a temporary loss of the privileges of employment, including, but
not limited to, wages or salary. Suspensions may be used to discipline
employees for serious misconduct and performance issues or for repeated
misconduct or performance issues of a less severe nature. Suspensions may be
imposed for not less than one but no more than ten days.
         (a)   Employees may be suspended without pay. The immediate supervisor
or departmental director shall give written notification of the suspension to
the employee, specifying the reason, duration, and effective date. The written
notice may be given to the employee after the fact, as in the case of an
immediate suspension by a supervisor. Copies of the written notice of
suspension shall be maintained in the employee's personnel file indefinitely.
         (b)   Suspended employees shall not be allowed to use any paid leave,
including vacation leave, sick leave, or personal leave during the suspension.
         (c)   In the event that any order of suspension is reversed or
reduced, the employee shall be paid any lost wages, salary, or benefits and
such a reversal or reduction shall be documented in the employee's personnel
file.
      (4)   (a)   Discharge. Discharge, or termination of employment, is the
permanent removal from employment and the permanent loss of all privileges of
employment with the city. Employees may be discharged for any improper or
inappropriate conduct without ever having received an oral warning, written
warning, or suspension.
         (b)   An employee may be discharged by the departmental director, with
the approval of the City Manager and/or City Council when necessary. Written
documentation of the discharge shall be maintained in the employee's personnel
file indefinitely.
   (B)   Conduct or behavior identified below shall constitute a violation of
the policies and other work rules in this chapter and may subject employees to
disciplinary action, ranging from oral warning to discharge, as deemed
appropriate. These work rules are examples and do not limit the city's right to
discipline or terminate an employee for reasons not specifically identified as
this list is not all-inclusive. The city may revise or modify work rules found
in this chapter as it deems appropriate. Employees will be subject to
disciplinary action for the following. Disciplinary action may be imposed on an
employee only for a just, reasonable cause. Examples of such causes include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Incompetent, inefficient, negligent, or unsatisfactory performance
of assigned work.
      (2)   Being absent without proper notification to the city. Excessive,
unreported, or unexcused absences from work. Abuse of sick leave privileges.
      (3)   Excessive tardiness or early departures from work.
      (4)   Insubordination or refusal of a direct work order or assignment or
other breaches of conduct.
      (5)   Bribery.
      (6)   Failing to report to work at any time when so directed, including
during emergencies.
      (7)   Leaving the assigned place of work during work hours without
authorization. Sleeping, loitering, or loafing on duty.
      (8)   Improper dress while at work.
      (9)   Failure to report on-the-job injury.
      (10)   Misconduct away from the job, which adversely affects the city.
      (11)   Any act which endangers the safety, health, or well-being of an
employee or citizen, or which is of sufficient magnitude that the consequences
cause or act to cause disruption of work or city operations.
      (12)   Disruptive attitude or abusive language, which is detrimental to
the services, programs, and operations of the city.
      (13)   Violating the equal employment opportunity policy, Americans with
Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, sexual harassment or
other employment policies.
      (14)   Violating the city's alcohol and substance abuse policy, smoking
policy, sexual harassment policy, or workplace violence policy.
      (15)   Violating any of the provisions of the ethics standards.
      (16)   Creating or contributing to an unsafe condition on city premises
or failing to adhere to safe operating practices. Failure to report an accident
involving city personnel or equipment.
      (17)   Sexual misconduct or immorality.
      (18)   Engaging in fighting, horseplay, or reckless conduct on city
premises or while on city business.
      (19)   Using vile, intemperate, offensive, or abusive language or acting
in a disrespectful manner towards any resident, citizen, municipal officer,
fellow employee, or member of the general public.
      (20)   Physically abusing, intimidating, offending, or coercing through
verbal threats any resident, citizen, municipal officer, fellow employee, or
member of the general public.
      (21)   Unauthorized possession of a weapon of any kind on city premises
or while on city business. This does not apply to sworn officers carrying
weapons pursuant to Police Department policies.
      (22)   Falsifying or altering of time sheets, personnel records,
employment applications, attendance, or any other city records or documents.
      (23)   Providing false information or information the employee should
have known to be false to a departmental director, supervisor, City Manager, or
any other city representative.
      (24)   Refusing to cooperate with the city during an investigation of a
city or employment-related incident.
      (25)   Removing from city premises, being in the unauthorized possession
of, or using for personal or any other inappropriate use, any city vehicle,
equipment, supplies, tools, material, or other property or using such property
of a resident, business, city official, or fellow employee without
authorization.
      (26)   Destroying, damaging, defacing, abusing, wasting, or misusing city
property, equipment, supplies, or materials or such property owned by a
resident, business, city official, or fellow employee.
      (27)   Allowing the political affiliation of the employee or a resident
or member of the general public to affect or influence whether a resident or
member of the general public receives city services or in any way affect the
type or quality of city services available or provided to the resident or
member of the general public.
      (28)   Allowing or conducting political activities during work hours.
      (29)   Assaulting or threatening an elected official.
      (30)   Revealing confidential city information without proper
authorization.
      (31)   Outside employment which adversely affects the city.
      (32)   Other violations of city policies or procedures.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to initiate progressive discipline at the
level that is determined to be the most commensurate with the severity of the
offense. Discipline shall be imposed as soon as possible after the city becomes
aware of the event or action that has warranted a disciplinary decision and
after the city has a reasonable period of time to investigate the matter. If
the city has reason to discipline an employee, all efforts shall be made to
issue the discipline in a manner that will not embarrass the employee in the
presence of other employees or members of the public.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.025 NON-UNION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every employee shall have the right and privilege to present a
grievance using the following steps, free from interference, coercion,
restraint, discrimination, penalty or reprisal. The following steps are to be
used for any cause of dissatisfaction or anything related to employment that is
wrong in the employee's opinion.
   (B)   Employees must present the grievance orally and in writing on a
grievance form to the immediate supervisor or the City Manager within five
working days of the incident. The supervisor or City Manager shall carefully
review the grievance and schedule a mutually convenient time, generally within
five working days, to discuss the complaint with the employee. The supervisor
or City Manager shall write a report of the review findings (which may include
a plan of action) and submit it to the City Manager and to the employee,
generally within ten working days.
   (C)   If the employee is dissatisfied with the review findings, the employee
may request in writing that the City Manager further review the grievance. This
request shall be made within ten working days after receipt of the supervisor's
written review. The City Manager shall:
      (1)   Review prior written material.
      (2)   Schedule a hearing at a mutually convenient time, generally within
five working days to discuss the grievance with the employee.
      (3)   Write a review of his or her findings, generally within ten working
days of the hearing. The written findings shall set forth the issue, state the
principle and relevant facts brought out at the hearing, state applicable
provisions in policy and/or law and state the reasoning that led to the
decision.
   (D)   The City Manager's decision shall be final and not reviewable.
   (E)   An employee may withdraw a grievance at any time.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.026 ATTENDANCE.
   City employees are expected to arrive at work at their scheduled times on
their scheduled work days. Excessive absenteeism, tardiness, or early departure
from work may result in disciplinary action, up to and including discharge from
employment. Employees that will be late or absent from work due to an illness
or emergency must notify their immediate supervisor no less than one hour
before their scheduled start time. A leave of absence or time off with or
without pay, may be approved and granted by a supervisor or departmental
director if necessary. Absences consisting of three days or more must be
excused with documentation by a certified physician.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.027 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   The city is a professional organization and must represent the public in a
professional manner. Therefore, a professional image should be reflected in
employee dress and mannerisms. Good grooming habits and proper, tasteful attire
are both essential in projecting this image. Styles, appearances, habits, or
other practices that are considered distracting or offensive to others should
be avoided, subject to the CROWN Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, §§ 1-103 et seq.). A
supervisor should be consulted if there are any questions or concerns regarding
appropriate dress and behavior. Departmental directors and supervisors have the
discretion to create and change a list of appropriate attire list based on the
work environment and job duties performed.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23)
§ 32.028 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Certain city employees (utility departments) shall reside within 30
miles of the corporate boundaries of the city unless otherwise provided for in
employment agreements and collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.029 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   "Outside employment" is defined as employment in addition to a regular
full-time position with the city. The city will not permit any kind of outside
employment if:
      (1)   It physically or mentally restricts an employee's ability to
perform the job required by the city.
      (2)   It reflects negatively upon employees of the city.
      (3)   It conflicts with their position as an employee of the city.
   (B)   The City Manager with consultation of each departmental director
reserves the right to prohibit any outside employment that is deemed
detrimental to the best interest of the city. In such cases, an employee shall
be given an appropriate warning and must make a decision, within a reasonable
period of time, regarding their future employment with the city.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.030 SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Farmer City is a drug and alcohol-free workplace. The city
recognizes that substances such as alcohol or illegal drugs can severely impair
an individual's physical and mental capabilities. When an employee consumes
these substances and they are impaired during the performance of their job,
they pose a major health and safety risk to themselves, other employees, and
members of the public. Therefore, the city deems all of its properties and work
areas drug and alcohol-free zones unless during appropriately sanctioned
events.
   (B)   The city prohibits the following:
      (1)   The consumption, possession (unless in accordance with duty
requirements), or being under the influence of alcohol or drugs at any time
during the workday or anywhere on city premises or job sites, including all
city buildings, properties, and vehicles, or while engaged in city business.
      (2)   Selling, purchasing, or delivering any drugs during the workday or
on any city properties.
      (3)   Using prescribed or over-the-counter medications, where such
medications may interfere with job performance or pose a safety risk to the
employee or others (unless first reporting to a supervisor that the medication
is being used).
   (C)   In order to support its goal of a drug and alcohol-free workplace, the
city has implemented a drug and alcohol testing program intended to help reduce
accidents and casualties, to help discourage substance abuse, and to help
reduce absenteeism, health care costs, and other drug and alcohol related
problems. This program is also designed to enhance the safety and health of the
employees, while also increasing employee morale and productivity and
commitment to the public.
   (D)   The city may conduct drug and alcohol screenings for the following
reasons:
      (1)   As a condition of pre-employment.
      (2)   At random times.
      (3)   As a requirement following an accident if the accident or citation
occurred during working hours.
      (4)   As a matter of reasonable suspicion if an employee is believed to
be under the influence of drugs or alcohol during the course of the workday.
   (E)   Positive tests may lead to suspension or discharge from employment
based on the severity of the circumstances surrounding the reason for testing
and the test results.
   (F)   The intent of this policy is to offer a helping hand to those who need
it, while sending a clear message that the illegal drug use and alcohol abuse
are incompatible with employment at the city.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.031 WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All personnel working for the city are covered for work-related
injuries. This insurance provides medical coverage and compensation for
accidents occurring on the job. Any job-related injuries must be reported
immediately to the employee's supervisor or to the person on call, within the
work schedule that the injury was received.
   (B)   Failure to report the accident or injury within the work schedule that
the injury was received, or treatment by a non-city-assigned physician, may
result in limited or eliminated coverage under the Worker's Compensation Law
which could result in the employee becoming responsible for any charges
incurred during treatment.
   (C)   Personal items damaged during a work-related injury will be replaced
(eye glasses or clothing damaged during a behavior incident will be replaced by
the city according to the procedure).
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.032 INJURY/ACCIDENT REPORTING.
   (A)   The city will comply with all state and national safety requirements.
The city will also comply with all safety requirements by the city's insurance
carrier.
   (B)   All job-related accidents involving injuries or occupational illness
must be reported to an immediate supervisor within 24 hours of the accident so
that the preparation and distribution of the required accident report forms can
be completed. Additionally, accidents resulting only in property damage and
accidents of a "near miss" nature must be reported to an immediate supervisor
within 48 hours of the incident.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of every employee, supervisor, and
departmental director to report all information concerning an accident, or
"near miss" accident, within the required time frame.
   (D)   Every employee injured on the job shall receive prompt medical
attention, which may range from first aid treatment to hospitalization,
depending on the extent of the injury or illness.
   (E)   All employees shall notify their supervisor when they have incurred or
as soon as reasonably possible, an off-duty injury that could affect the
performance of their duties. Notification shall occur at the beginning of the
first shift after the off-duty injury occurs. The city has the right to choose
whether to make "light duty" assignments and/or to require a statement from a
physician indicating that the employee can return to work, before allowing an
injured employee to return to work.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.033 HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Prohibition on harassment.
      (1)   It is the city's policy to prohibit harassment and/or
discrimination of any individual by another person on the basis of any
protected classification including, but not limited to, actual or perceived
race, creed, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, citizenship status,
age, disability, sex, marital status, veteran status, sexual orientation,
genetic information or pregnancy. The purpose of this policy is not to regulate
employees' personal morality, but to ensure that in the workplace, no one
harasses another individual.
      (2)   Harassment consists of unwelcome conduct, whether verbal, physical
or visual that is based upon a person's protected status as outlined above. The
city will not tolerate harassing conduct that affects tangible job benefits,
that interferes unreasonably with an individual's work performance or that
creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. Such
harassment may include, for example, jokes about another person's protected
status, or kidding, teasing or practical jokes directed to a person based on
his or her protected status.
      (3)   Harassing conduct also includes, but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Epithets, innuendoes, slurs, negative stereotyping or
threatening, intimidating or hostile acts that related to race, color,
religion, gender, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation or any
other legally protected category;
         (b)   Written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility
or aversion toward ian individual or group because of an individual's protected
classification that is placed on walls, bulletin boards, or elsewhere on the
employer's premises or circulated in the workplace.
   (B)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. Sexual harassment is a form of discrimination.
All persons have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all
genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the City of Farmer City to
prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent,
municipal employee, municipal agency or municipal office on the basis of sex or
gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and
municipal agencies or municipal offices are prohibited from sexually harassing
any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
   (C)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual's employment, either explicitly or implicitly;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Verbal harassment: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments,
insults, humor, jokes about: sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or, statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
         (b)   Non-verbal harassment: suggestive or insulting sounds
(whistling), leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures,
"catcalls," "smacking" or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical harassment: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic harassment: "sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (email/text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network websites, like
Facebook and Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (D)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment or any
other harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or harassment or
believes herself or himself to be the object of sexual harassment or other
harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible
by clearly communicating her or his position to the offending employee, and his
or her immediate supervisor. It is not necessary for sexual harassment or other
harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassment
or other harassment in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and
clearly express his or her objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request
that the offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If
subsequent messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a
memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, the
City Manager or Administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality.
         (c)   The employee experiencing what she or he believes to be sexual
harassment or other harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of
the conduct. If there are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a
supervisor or other responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed
to have knowledge of the harassment.
         (d)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
      (3)   Allegations of sexual harassment or other harassment made against
an elected official of the governmental unit by another elected official of a
governmental unit. In addition to the methods of reporting included above, an
elected official may request an independent review of a complaint of sexual
harassment or other harassment by another elected official. The request shall
be made to the City Manager or the chief elected official of the municipality.
The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in keeping with
the procurement process of the municipality to retain a qualified individual or
entity for the independent review of the allegations of sexual harassment in
violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent review shall be
reported to the corporate authorities.
      (4)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the location), including, but
not limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      (5)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
or other harassment charges and the difficulties associated with their
investigation and the questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing
cooperation is a vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate
outcome.
   (E)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment or
harassment allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy; or
         (b)   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's or official's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
   (F)   Consequences of a violation of this policy. Any violation of this
policy may be subject to discipline up to and including termination from
employment.
   (G)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report. A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser to accomplish an outcome other
than stopping sexual harassment or harassment or stopping retaliation for
reporting sexual harassment or harassment. A false report is not a report made
in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the consequences
for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense that can
itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally makes a
false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall be
subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   (H)   Whistleblower Act. The city requires elected and appointed officials,
department heads and employees to observe high standards of business and
personal ethics in the conduct of their duties and responsibilities and to
practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling their responsibilities and to
comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of all elected and appointed officials,
department heads employees to report violations or suspected violations in
accordance with the Whistleblower Act, ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 1 et seq.
      (2)   No elected or appointed officials, department heads, or employees
who in good faith report a violation shall suffer harassment, retaliation or
adverse employment consequences. Violation of this policy is subject to
discipline, up to and including, termination of employment.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.034 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Farmer City that violence in the workplace,
work-related violence, or threats of violence will not be tolerated, regardless
of when or where it occurs, both on and off duty. Accordingly, city employees
are prohibited from engaging in violence or threats of violence against any
person in the workplace, or outside of the workplace if the violence is work-
related. Employees who violate the policy will be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including discharge from employment and legal action. Acts of
self-defense against criminal assault are not prohibited by the policy.
   (A)   Acts of violence shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Physically threatening or hostile behaviors.
      (2)   Bodily injury or harm.
      (3)   Verbal or written threats of violence.
      (4)   Physical assault.
      (5)   Acts of vandalism, arson, or sabotage.
      (6)   Unauthorized possession or use of a lethal weapon or poisonous
substance.
   (B)   Acts or threats of violence, or severe disagreements or disputes that
could lead to violence, should be reported to an immediate supervisor or
departmental director at the first opportunity so that a thorough investigation
may be conducted immediately.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.035 GIFT POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Farmer City adheres to the provisions of the State of
Illinois Gift Ban Act. In accordance with the Act, all employees, as well as
all city departments, are prohibited from soliciting or accepting gifts,
gratuities, or other related donations from any individual, vendors,
businesses, or other entities with whom they may come into contact during the
course of their official duties that might be reasonably inferred to be for the
purpose of influencing the employee in the normal exercise of their duties.
   (B)   Exceptions to the gift ban restrictions include:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
      (2)   Anything for which the employee pays the market value.
      (3)   Any contribution that is lawfully made or activities associated
with a fundraising event in support of a political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions.
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss city business.
      (6)   A gift from those people who are related to the employee.
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship, unless the gift was offered because of the official position or
employment of the employee who receives it.
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day, but only if the food or refreshments are delivered to the
worksite or consumed on the premises from which they were purchased.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from the outside business or employment activities of the employee or
their spouse, but only if the benefits have not been offered or enhanced
because of the official position or employment of the employee and if the
benefits are customarily provided to others in similar circumstances.
      (10)   Gifts given to an employee of a city department by a member of the
same city or by a
member of another city, state agency, federal agency, or any governmental
entity.
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers upon death.
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source having a
cumulative total value of less than $100 during any calendar year.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.036 USE OF CITY PROPERTY POLICY.
   The city provides employees with a variety of resources that are essential
in the efficient and effective performance of their jobs. Accordingly, these
resources (including, but not limited to, telephones, cell phones, smart
phones, tablets, notebook computers, tools, automobiles, GPS navigation units,
pagers, copiers, fax machines, e-mail, and internet access) should be used
solely for job-related purposes. While in the performance of job-related
functions, these resources shall be used responsibly and professionally and
shall not be used for any unlawful purpose.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.037 TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES POLICY.
   (A)   The city provides various information technology resources to its
employees (and other authorized persons) to facilitate the creation and
communication of business-related data in the most effective and efficient
manner possible. As means develop to transmit more data in less time and with
less formality, users must put more effort to maintaining the accuracy,
security and control of data. Each user must ensure that use of city
information technology resources is appropriate and professional. This is
especially true because electronic communications tend to be more immediate and
informal than written communications and because passwords and deletion
functions create the illusion of privacy and control.
      (1)   Relatedly, although the Internet can be a valuable information
resource for legitimate business, research and information sharing, it also
presents a significant opportunity for abuse, lost productivity and potential
liability for the city and its employees.
      (2)   In light of these concerns, the city has developed this policy,
which establishes the parameters for proper use of information technology
resources. The information technology resources are to be used for legitimate
corporate purposes and in compliance with all city policies and procedures.
Employees (and other authorized persons) who do not comply with this policy are
subject to the revocation of their access to city information technology
resources and disciplinary action up to and including termination.
   (B)   Proper use. Other than occasional personal use of e-mail and internet
access, city-provided technology resources may be used only for legitimate
business-related communications. Occasional personal use means infrequent,
incidental use that is professional and does not interfere with city business,
the performance of the user's duties or the availability of technology
resources. To the extent possible such use shall be restricted to meal periods
and breaks. All use of city technology resources, including all personal use,
is subject to this policy.
      (1)   Examples of appropriate Internet usage include:
         (a)   Communicating with fellow employees, supervisors, customers,
vendors, and the public regarding business matters.
         (b)   Researching topics that are relevant to specific job
requirements or city projects.
         (c)   Conducting other work-related activities.
      (2)   Examples of inappropriate Internet usage includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Visiting sites or transferring information that is considered
obscene.
         (b)   Using e-mail or other communications as a form of harassment.
         (c)   Visiting social networking sites, dating sites, or any other
site that is not related to the job being performed for an inordinate amount of
time.
         (d)   Fundraising or political activities.
         (e)   Personal for-profit or commercial activities.
         (f)   Storing, viewing, or printing multimedia files (such as games,
movie files, animations, pictures, graphics or other files) that are not
directly related to an employee's job or business activity of the city.
   (C)   Data ownership. All data created, entered, received, stored, accessed,
viewed or transmitted via city technology resources are city property, where
permissible by law. The city has a perpetual, royalty-free, irrevocable, non-
exclusive right and license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish,
distribute and incorporate all such data. Business-related data may neither be
used for any purpose unrelated to city business nor sold, transmitted, conveyed
or communicated in any way to anyone outside of the city without the city's
express authorization.
   (D)   No privacy. Users have no expectation of privacy in connection with
the use of city technology resources, including the creation, entry, receipt,
storage, accessing, viewing or transmission of data.
   (E)   Monitoring. As with all other city property, the city will search,
monitor, inspect, intercept, review, access and/or disclose all city technology
resources and all data created, entered, received, stored, viewed, accessed or
transmitted via those resources for any reason, at any time, and without
further advance notice by persons designated by or acting at the direction of
the city, or as may be required by law or as necessary for, or incidental to,
auditing, security and investigative activities, and to ensure effective
technology resource administration and policy compliance. For example,
authorized persons will inspect the city's technology resources to investigate
theft, the unauthorized disclosure of client confidences, attorney work product
and proprietary information, misuse, and to assess internet use. The city will
attempt to ensure that monitoring and inspections are conducted professionally.
In this regard, no employee may monitor or intercept any data without the
authorization of the City Manager or Mayor, or persons designated by them or
acting at their direction or at the direction of the corporate authorities.
   (F)   Harassment. Users are absolutely forbidden from using the city's
technology resources in any way that may be construed to violate the city's
harassment-free workplace policy. This prohibition includes sexually explicit
or offensive images, messages, cartoons, jokes, ethnic or religious slurs,
racial epithets or any other statement or image that might be construed as
harassment or disparagement on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, or any other status
protected by law. Users are required to take all reasonable steps to avoid and
eliminate receipt from known sources of all potentially offensive material.
   (G)   Improper use. City technology resources may not be used to
intentionally or unintentionally violate any local, state, federal or
international civil or criminal law. Users likewise may not upload, post, e-
mail or otherwise transmit any data that is threatening, malicious, tortious,
defamatory, libelous, obscene, or invasive of another's privacy. In addition,
city technology resources may not be used to job- search outside of the city or
run or solicit outside business ventures.
   (H)   Prohibited software. Software purchased and licensed for personal use
may not be installed on city computers. The city periodically may, at any time,
conduct an audit or interrogation of computers for installed software and
related printed material that is not included on a then-current inventory of
city-authorized software. All unauthorized software will be removed and
destroyed.
   (I)   Proprietary rights. City technology resources may not be used to
violate proprietary rights, including copyright, trademark, trade secrets,
right of publicity or any other intellectual property rights. For example,
unless consistent with all applicable licenses, users may not post or download
any data (including software) protected by copyright or patent law. Likewise,
users may load only licensed software from the internet or other source onto a
city-provided workstation or laptop, provided that use of the software is
consistent with the license and the original software license remains at the
appropriate city office so that the city may conduct accurate audits (and
respond to external audits). All software must be approved by the City Manager
prior to downloading.
   (J)   Confidential information and use of intellectual property. Users may
not leak, place, post, transmit or otherwise disclose confidential, sensitive
and/or proprietary city information to any unauthorized city employee or anyone
outside of the city by any means, at any time or for any reason.
   (K)   Passwords and security.
      (1)   All passwords and security used in connection with city technology
resources, including voice mail access codes, are city property and must be
made available to the city upon request. Users must understand that their use
of passwords will not preclude access, monitoring, inspection, review, or
disclosure by authorized city personnel. The city also may unilaterally assign
and/or change passwords and personal codes. The security of city's technology
resources is a serious matter and is every user's responsibility.
      (2)   Users are expected to follow any password and security complexity
procedures provided by the City Manager. Users shall make every effort to
secure their passwords and security codes and not share this information with
other people, including fellow employees with the exception of city authorities
as stated above. The city will not ask or require any employee or employment
applicant to disclose user names, passwords or other login information to any
personal accounts or services.
   (L)   E-mail retention. The city retains and archives every e-mail message
sent or received by those with a city-issued e-mail account.
   (M)   Viruses. Users may not knowingly upload, post, e-mail or otherwise
transmit any material that contains software viruses or any other computer
code, files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy, or limit the
functionality of any computer software, hardware or telecommunications
equipment.
   (N)   Misrepresentation of identity or data. Unauthorized access of e-mail,
data, and use and/or disclosure of other users' passwords is strictly
prohibited. For example, users are prohibited from accessing other users' files
or communications without any legitimate business purpose (e.g., to satisfy
idle curiosity or to "snoop"), regardless of the security designation assigned
to a particular file or communication.
   (O)   General matters. City technology resources may not be used to transmit
junk mail or spam (the same or substantially similar messages sent to a large
number of recipients for commercial or other purposes unrelated to the city) or
pyramid schemes of any kind, or to download or execute games. The city will not
be responsible for any damages, direct or indirect, arising out of the use of
its technology resources. The city may amend, revise or depart from this policy
at any time, with or without notice.
   (P)   Acknowledgment. All employees who are authorized to use city
technology resources must sign an Acknowledgment and Statement of Agreement.
The City Clerk will retain the Acknowledgments in users' personnel files.
   (Q)   Termination of access at separation. Before each user's last day of
employment, the employee shall return or otherwise surrender possession of all
city technology resources (including computers, software programs, computer
peripherals, electronically stored data [including all client confidences and/
or attorney work product], data storage devices, keys, and written passwords)
in his or her possession, custody or control. Upon separation of employment,
the city will terminate user access to city technology resources.
   (R)   Social media.
      (1)   Social media is defined as a media outlet that allows users to
generate their own content and share content while networking with other users.
Social media is not strictly limited to the internet; however, internet-based
social media sites present the best opportunity to reach a critical mass of
residents and businesses.
      (2)   Generally, the only cost for the most basic social media programs
is limited to the manpower needed to start and maintain them.
      (3)   Objective of the City of Farmer City social networking program: "To
deliver City of Farmer City information to residents and businesses in a timely
and engaging manner via relevant social networking tools."
         (a)   Information includes:
            1.   Public event information - dates, times, locations;
            2.   City meeting information and updates;
            3.   Photos from public events;
            4.   "Did you know..." information, services available, tools on
the city website; and
            5.   Links to relevant pages of the city website or in the
traditional media.
         (b)   Social media will not be used to share personal opinions,
subjective information, political campaign information or political stands. The
City Manager reserves the right to delete or remove inappropriate and/or
offensive comments.
      (4)   Posting updates. The purpose of posting updates is to communicate
useful, factual information regarding public events and information. The tone
of updates on social media sites will strive to appropriately convey a feeling
of excitement for upcoming events and general announcements. Public meeting
updates will maintain a neutral, objective tone. Minimally, updates will be
posted on a regular basis during the work week. Posting will be under user
names that may include "Farmer City," "City of Farmer City," or
"#CityofFarmerCity," et al.
      (5)   Posting update requests. Requests for posting updates on social
media sites will be sent to the City Manager from the appropriate department
director or their deputy or assistant. Requests will include relevant
information (event name, date, time, location) and any photos, artwork, or
logos associated with the request. Requests may also include a preferred number
of announcements and timing (e.g., two weeks prior to the event, a week prior
to the event, and the day of the event). Events will be posted on the city's
website and relevant social channels throughout the week to avoid releasing
information all at one time, and to keep information fresh.
      (6)   Fostering a dialogue. Considering the information posted on each of
the sites is informational in nature and will not take on a political bias or
tone, it is recommended comments be enabled unless conditions warrant that the
comment feature be disabled. Municipalities with similar "fan pages" on
Facebook have limited comments on their sites, and the comments are generally
positive or neutral responses to event information. The City of Farmer City
reserves the right to remove any comments received through social media
channels that are found to be spam, obscene, malicious, threatening, hostile,
overtly negative or destructive to the dialogue.
      (7)   Disclaimers. The Facebook user names will have disclaimers included
that will direct individuals with questions to the city website and individuals
with emergencies to 9-1-1. The disclaimer will be incorporated into the
Facebook "city page".
      (8)   Employee usage.
         (a)   The city recognizes that social media creates opportunities for
community engagement, interpersonal connection and self-expression, but it also
creates risks and responsibilities. Everyone should assume that any use of
social media, whether on a business or personal account, could be viewed by a
colleague, supervisor, partner, supplier or member of the public. If any social
media activity of an employee of the government adversely affects the
employee's job performance, the performance of fellow employees or otherwise
adversely affects the goals of the government, an employee of the government
may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
         (b)   Disclosure of confidential government information, sensitive
information or personal information relating to government officials and
employees, or members of the public, is prohibited.
         (c)   It is requested that employees who identify themselves as
employees of the city post a disclaimer on their own personal social media
platforms that any posts or blogs are solely the opinion of the employee and
not the employer.
         (d)   Personal use of social media in the workplace may be allowed
within reasonable time limits so long as it does not adversely impact the
government employee's job performance.
         (e)   As provided in division (D) of this section, city employees have
no expectation of privacy when using the city's technology resources, including
any use related to the employee's use of any social media platform.
      (9)   Policy violations. Access to and use of city technology resources
is a privilege, not a right. Users who do not comply with this policy are
subject to denial of access to city technology resources and disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.038 CITY CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit cards may be provided to city employees for the purpose of
acquiring the necessary materials and services to complete their duties in a
more convenient and efficient manner. A supervisor or departmental director may
submit a request for an employee to become a cardholder. If the request is
granted, the approved employee must review this policy and shall be required to
sign a city cardholder agreement to indicate an understanding and acceptance of
the rights and responsibilities of a cardholder.
   (B)   The credit card provided by the city may be used for official use
only. Unauthorized or private use of city-owned credit cards is strictly
prohibited. Also, no other individual is authorized to use the card except for
the approved cardholder. An employee who makes unauthorized purchases or
carelessly uses the credit card will be liable to the city for the total dollar
amount of such purchases plus any administrative fees charged by the bank or
card company in connection with the misuse. In addition, inappropriate or
negligent use of the city-owned credit card will result in disciplinary and
possible legal action.
   (C)   Unauthorized uses of the city-owned credit card include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Personal purchases or for personal identification.
      (2)   A single purchase that exceeds the cardholder's predetermined
single purchase limit.
      (3)   Cash advances.
      (4)   Personal cell phone or other monthly service payments.
      (5)   Alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   The cardholder is responsible for maintaining receipts of all card
transactions. Receipts are required for all purchases made with the card and
they must be submitted as soon as possible, but no more than 30 days after
purchase, to the employee's supervisor or departmental director or Finance
Office. If the cardholder does not have documentation of a transaction listed
on the monthly statement, the employee must attach an explanation that includes
a description of the items or services purchased, the date of purchase, the
vendor's name, and the reason for the lack of supporting documentation. In the
event that a cardholder displays a pattern of undocumented or unauthorized
purchases, the employee's credit card privileges may be revoked and
disciplinary action may be administered. Also, the cardholder will be
responsible for all charges not adequately documented as well as charges that
were not made for legitimate city business.
   (E)   Cardholders are expected to obtain the best prices available when
purchasing goods and services. Purchasing items at above market prices where
the vendor gives the employee any form of gift, bonus, or premium in exchange
for making the purchase is considered an illegal kickback and may result in
discharge from employment and prosecution.
   (F)   If a credit card is lost or stolen, the cardholder must immediately
notify the Supervisor or departmental director so that the card can be
deactivated for further use. Once the deactivation process is complete, a new
card can be issued to the cardholder.
   (G)   In the event that a cardholder ceases to be employed by the city, the
card must be returned. If an employee leaves their position voluntarily, they
must surrender the credit card and any undocumented receipts to their
departmental director prior to the separation date.
   (H)   If an employee leaves their position involuntarily, the departmental
director or City Manager should collect the credit card and any undocumented
receipts at the time of the employee's discharge.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.039 CITY VEHICLE POLICY.
   (A)   The city may provide vehicles that are to be used only to conduct city
business. Only permitted city employees, as well as elected and appointed city
officials, shall be allowed to drive city-owned vehicles. Authorized users are
responsible for the care, conservation, and the correct and safe usage of city
vehicles. When operating city-owned vehicles, authorized users shall obey the
laws of the city and the State of Illinois and will take every precaution to
safeguard the condition of the vehicle and members of the public. When not in
use, city vehicles and equipment shall be locked in an effort to avoid theft or
destruction.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all city vehicles as is the transportation of
alcohol.
   (C)   Authorized users must be at least 18 years of age and must possess a
valid driver's license of proper classification in order to operate a city
vehicle. In the event an authorized user's driver's license is suspended or
revoked, the user must immediately notify their supervisor or departmental
director. Failure to do so will be cause for disciplinary action.
   (D)   When operating the city's vehicles or equipment, authorized users
should keep in mind that they are representatives of the city and their conduct
is a direct reflection on the entire organization. It is essential that
authorized users exhibit courteous and safe operation on the road, while also
abiding by all city, state, and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (E)   City vehicles are not for personal use or to be taken home by the
employee, unless authorized by the employee's supervisor or departmental
director. Vehicles that are authorized to be taken home must be available for
city business at all times. Also, no passengers shall be transported in city
vehicles other than those who are involved in city business, unless otherwise
approved by the operator's supervisor or departmental director.
   (F)   An employee of the city must immediately notify their supervisor or
departmental director of all damaged, lost, or stolen property. If an
authorized user experiences an accident, equipment loss or theft, or damage to
the vehicle caused by the negligence of the employee, then the employee may
face disciplinary action and may be responsible for the replacement of the
damaged, lost, or stolen items.
   (G)   All employees of the city must report any moving traffic violations or
accidents in which they are involved while on duty, or while using city
vehicles, to their supervisor or departmental director. Under these
circumstances, the employee must pay any fines for violations incurred in full.
   (H)   If an authorized user is involved in an accident while on duty, the
employee must submit an accident report using the designated forms as soon as
possible after the accident occurs. Failure to notify a supervisor about an
accident or failure to submit a report may be cause for disciplinary action, up
to and including discharge.
   (I)   Employees may, with departmental director approval, use their private
vehicles for city business. In these instances, the city will reimburse the
employee at the set IRS mileage rate for any mileage used for city business.
Mileage reimbursement will not be given for trips made to/from employee's
residence and main work location.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.040 CELL PHONE/GPS USE POLICY.
   (A)   Employees are expected to use discretion when using city phones or
personal cell phones. Excessive personal calls during the workday can interfere
with employee productivity and can be distracting to others. Employees are
asked to make personal calls on non-work time where possible and to make
friends and family aware of this policy.
   (B)   Employees whose jobs require regular or occasional driving and who use
a cell phone or GPS navigation unit for business or personal use are expected
to use good judgment when using these devices while driving. Personal and
public safety must come before all other concerns.
   (C)   Employees are prohibited from using a cell phone while driving unless
with hands-free equipment. It is strongly recommended that the employee pull
over to the side of the road and park the vehicle before placing or accepting a
call. Where job responsibilities require regular driving and phone usage,
hands-free equipment may be provided for the employee's convenience at the
department head or supervisor's discretion.
   (D)   Employees must adhere to all state regulations involving cell phone
usage. It is against the law in the State of Illinois to compose, send, or read
a text message, e-mail, instant message, or other notification on an electronic
device while operating a vehicle. Also, it is prohibited to use a cell phone
while driving, while in a school speed zone or a construction zone, unless
using hands-free equipment.
   (E)   When using a GPS navigation system, the destination should be entered
before the vehicle is in motion in order to reduce distraction and lower the
risk of an accident. Also, the GPS unit should be placed in a position that
does not hinder the driver's view of the road.
   (F)   Employees who are charged with traffic violations or who are involved
in accidents resulting from the use of their cell phones or GPS units while
driving will be responsible for all liabilities that result from such actions.
   (G)   Employees whose responsibilities do not specifically include driving
as an essential function, but who are issued a cell phone or GPS unit for
business use, are also expected to follow all provisions of this policy.
Violations of the policy by any employee will lead to disciplinary action, up
to and including discharge from employment.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.041 CELL PHONE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Policy. Per the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, Employees
whose job duties include the frequent need for a cell phone will receive extra
compensation, in the form of a cell phone allowance, to cover business-related
costs on their personal cell phone. No further reimbursement for cell phone
costs is available to employees who receive such an allowance. The city may
also maintain a limited number of cell phones assigned to a specific department
or piece of equipment. These phones are intended to be used only during work
hours and personal use of these phones is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Allowance.
      (1)   Eligibility. Employees eligible for a cell phone allowance
generally include department heads, supervisors, and full-time employees whose
job duties regularly require emergency call back, irregular work hours or other
job-related factors that require the employee to routinely utilize a cell phone
to enhance their ability to perform their job duties. Department heads shall
recommend which employees within their departments qualify for a cell phone
allowance. The City Manager shall give final approval on all cell phone
allowances.
      (2)   Allowance amount. The standard monthly cell phone allowance amount
shall be $25 or $50. No further reimbursement for cell phone costs is available
to employees who receive an allowance.
      (3)   Allowance payment. The approved cell phone allowance will be paid
monthly on the employee's paycheck pre-tax. This allowance does not constitute
an increase to base pay, and will not be included in the calculation of
percentage increases to base pay due to salary increases, promotions, etc.
   (C)   Employee responsibilities. Per the employee cell phone reimbursement
agreement, the employee must retain an active cell phone contract as long as a
cell phone allowance is in place. The employee must provide their department
head and the City Manager with their current cell phone number and immediately
notify both parties if the number changes. Employees receiving a cell phone
allowance are expected to carry the cell phone on their person both on and off
duty and respond when called for city business.
      (1)   Employees may choose the cellular service provider and plan design
of their choice.
      (2)   Because the employee owns the cell phone personally, the employee
may use the phone for both business and personal purposes, as needed. Use of
the phone in any manner contrary to local, state, or federal laws will
constitute misuse, and will result in immediate termination of the cell phone
allowance. Any business-related use (texts, calls and emails) will be subject
to FOIA.
      (3)   If, prior to the end of the cell phone contract, a personal
decision by the employee, or employee misconduct, or misuse of the phone,
results in the cell phone allowance being discontinued or the need to end or
change the cell phone contract, the employee will bear the cost of any fees
associated with that change or cancellation. For example, if an employee
resigns, and no longer wants to retain the current cell phone contract for
personal purposes, any cancellation charges will be the employee's
responsibility.
   (D)   Department assigned cell phones. City-owned cell phones assigned to
departments shall be used by multiple employees on an as- needed basis during
the work day and are intended solely for city business use. Personal use of
such phones for anything other than a personal emergency may subject the
employee to disciplinary action and require appropriate reimbursement to the
city. Such phones will not be assigned to an individual and shall not be taken
home by employees except periodically when an employee is assigned by the
department to be "on call" after normal work hours.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.042 TRAINING, TRAVEL AND TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Training.
      (1)   The city recognizes that attendance at and participation in
seminars or conferences is a valuable tool for updating an employee's job
knowledge, skills and abilities. Requests by employees to attend seminars,
conferences, workshops, conventions and the like should be submitted through
their supervisor for review and approval by the respective department head
subject to budgetary and scheduling parameters.
      (2)   Employees attending a conference, meeting, class, seminar,
convention or similar occasion as a representative of the city are expected to
conduct themselves in a professional manner. Any improper conduct will be
treated as if it occurred during regular working hours and the employee may be
subject to disciplinary action for such improper conduct, up to and including
termination of employment.
   (B)   Travel.
      (1)   TRAVEL is defined as “any expenditure directly incident to official
travel by employees and officers of the city involving reimbursement to
travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or
related services.”
      (2)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “Travel, Meal and
Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form” has been submitted and approved.
All documents and information submitted with the form shall be subject to
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et
seq.).
      (3)   The cost of travel and related expenses for attendance at
conferences and seminars shall be reimbursed pursuant to § 32.073.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23)
§ 32.043 SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Farmer City honors the Illinois ban on smoking in public
places. In doing so, the city reinforces the importance of a safe and healthy
workplace.
   (B)   Smoking is not permitted:
      (1)   Inside city buildings or within any work area.
      (2)   Within any city-owned vehicle.
      (3)   Within 15 feet outside of any city building.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
§ 32.060 WAGES.
   (A)   The purpose of a classification and pay plan is to promote a wage
system that is fair, flexible and consistently applied throughout the
organization. In its administration, it is linked with regular performance
appraisals of the employees and longevity plan, if any.
   (B)   Within the plan, positions are assigned to pay ranges, which are
competitive with the market place and provide room for individual advancement
based on performance. Employees move up annually based on performance
evaluations; the amount that they move on the scale should be directly and
quantitatively related to their measured performance. Wage increases will take
place at the beginning of the next year budget upon anniversary.
   (C)   Employees shall be compensated in accordance with a current wage
schedule. A11 employees are encouraged to enroll in the city's direct deposit
program. Sign-up will be with the City Clerk's Office.
   (D)   Employees are paid on a bi-weekly basis (26 periods per year). Payroll
receipts are issued on Friday of a pay week. In the event the regular payday is
a legal holiday, the preceding day shall become the payday.
   (E)   All employees paid on an hourly basis are required to document time in
and out for their hours worked. All times must be recorded on the appropriate
time sheet, if provided by the respective department. The employee and their
supervisor in those departments must sign all time sheets. Prior permission of
the immediate supervisor must be obtained for any change in schedule or
overtime hours. Employees are required to check out when not on duty. The
supervisor must authorize make-up time.
   (F)   Falsification of time records is a serious offense and is grounds for
disciplinary action, including discharge.
   (G)   In accordance with the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the city will not pay
wages or salaries to any employee at a rate less than the city pays employees
of the opposite sex for work that is substantially equivalent and requires
comparable skills.
   (H)   Wages are reviewed on an annual basis during budget preparation and
then adopted by the City Council with recommendations from the City Manager,
who takes into consideration budgetary constraints as well as collective
bargaining agreements, as part of the overall compensation plan.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.061 CHANGE OF PERSONAL STATUS.
   Any changes in name, address, tax exemptions, marital status or emergency
contact should be reported to the City Clerk. Requests for changes in health
coverage must also be made through the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.062 SCHEDULING.
   (A)   The workday shall vary by department. Departmental directors may
change normal hours based on operational needs.
   (B)   The workweek is defined as 40 hours beginning at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00
a.m. on Monday and ending at 3:30 p.m. or 4:00 p.m. the following Friday. For
payroll purposes, the workweek will end at the close of the employee's regular
shift on Wednesday on the week of payday.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.063 OVERTIME.
   (A)   In accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, all non-
exempt employees working in excess of 40 hours in any workweek shall be paid at
a rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate.
Departmental directors are responsible for approving all overtime.
   (B)   Leave time shall not be used in a manner that causes overtime to be
accrued unless required and/or allowed by the department head.
   (C)   An employee shall be compensated at a rate of $5.00 per hour for each
hour "on call" not to include any call out which is at one and one half normal
hourly rate. On call times are listed per department.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.064 EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   All full-time city employees who also serve as a volunteer firefighter shall
be allowed to respond to an emergency call during their regularly scheduled
workday. Employees responding to such calls, as outlined in this section, will
receive only their regular rate of pay for those hours or fraction of hours in
which the emergency response occurs during their regularly scheduled work
shift. If the emergency response extends beyond the regularly scheduled work
hours, the employee will not be paid for those hours beyond the regularly
scheduled work day.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.065 VACATION.
   (A)   Full-time employees. The policy of the city is to provide paid
vacation hours for full-time employees to have time away from work for their
own health and wellbeing.
   (B)   Scheduling and using vacation hours requires a request from the
employee and authorization from the supervisor. Vacation hours are granted
based on the needs of the department to which the employee is assigned. All
full-time employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement shall
receive paid vacation hours according to the following schedule.
Consecutive Years         Annual Accrual
1 year through 4 years      80 hours
After 5 years through 9 years   120 hours
After 10 years         160 hours
After 20 years         200 hours
   (C)   Employees may carry over no more than 40 hours of accrued vacation
time from one year to the next. Employees may sell back up to 80 hours of
vacation per budgetary year.
   (D)   Vacation is accrued upon the start of employment every two weeks. An
employee must complete 90 days of employment in order to be eligible to utilize
vacation time.
   (E)   Part-time employees. The policy of the city is to provide paid time
off for part-time employees to have time away from work for their own health
and wellbeing. All part-time employees, not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, shall receive one hour of paid time off per 40 hours worked. Paid
time off accrues immediately upon employment but may not be used until 90 days
of employment. Paid time off not used prior to the time of separation of
employment with the city shall be forfeited.
   (F)   No more than two weeks vacation shall be taken at any one time. Any
deviation from this division shall first have the approval of the department
head.
   (G)   Consecutive years of service shall mean without interruption, other
than interruptions caused by military service, sickness, or other leaves of
absence granted by the city.
   (H)   All vacations will be scheduled so as not to interrupt service to
residents. If there are conflicts that cannot be resolved, then vacation time
of those affected by the conflicts, and those only, will be determined by the
department head on the basis of seniority.
   (I)   Upon resignation or termination, an employee is entitled to be paid
for all earned but unused vacation time. Upon the death of an employee, all
earned vacation time shall be paid at the regular rate of pay to the employee's
legal heir or executor.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1109, passed 12-18-23)
§ 32.066 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Paid time-off is granted to most full-time employees for the following
holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day
      (3)   President’s Day
      (4)   Good Friday
      (5)   Memorial Day
      (6)   Juneteenth
      (7)   Fourth of July
      (8)   Labor Day
      (9)   Columbus Day
      (10)   Veteran’s Day
      (11)   Thanksgiving Day
      (12)   Day after Thanksgiving Day
      (13)   Christmas Eve
      (14)   Christmas Day
   (B)   If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the proceeding Friday shall be
observed as the holiday. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday
shall be observed as the holiday.
   (C)   For employees who are scheduled to work on holidays, the employees
shall be paid eight hours holiday pay at straight time rates and time and one-
half for all hours worked. When a holiday falls on an employee’s regularly
scheduled workday during the employee’s vacation period, the employee will be
charged for the holiday and retain the vacation day.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23)
§ 32.067 PERSONAL DAYS.
   All full-time employees with at least one full year of continuous service
with the city may be granted two paid eight hours personal days per calendar
year. Personal days may be taken together with holidays or vacation days but
must be approved in advance. Personal days must be taken during the calendar
year and cannot be carried over.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.068 REST/MEAL PERIODS.
   (A)   Rest periods.
      (1)   There shall be two rest periods of 15 minutes each during each
regular shift, one during the first half of the shift and one during the second
half of the shift. All rest periods shall be taken in the workplace in the case
of office employees and at the job site in the case of field employees.
      (2)   Rest periods shall be taken at the time designated by the
supervisor. Missed rest periods do not constitute overtime or a reduction in
working hours.
   (B)   Meal periods.
      (1)   Work schedules shall provide for the workday to be split at
approximately the mid-point by an uninterrupted, unpaid meal period of no less
than 30 minutes and no more than one hour.
      (2)   Meal periods shall be taken at the time designated by the
supervisor. Missed meal periods do not constitute overtime or a reduction in
working hours.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.069 BENEFITS/PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Automatic deductions are taken from all city employees' pay, including
state and federal withholdings, Medicare (where applicable), Social Security
(where applicable), and the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. The city also
provides the opportunity for voluntary payroll deductions, in which the
employee can subtract a chosen amount of their pay to contribute to benefits or
other fees.
   (B)   Examples of voluntary payroll deductions include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Union membership dues or fees or Fair Share.
      (2)   Health insurance. The city offers health insurance which calls for
employees' premium contributions to be automatically deducted from their pay,
with an option of before taxes.
      (3)   Deferred compensation. The city offers Section 457 Deferred
Compensation Plans, which are a tax-deferred retirement plan that is funded
exclusively by an employee's contributions. This plan allows employees to set
aside a portion of their pay on a pre-tax basis to supplement their Social
Security and other retirement plans.
      (4)   Life insurance - $10,000 plan.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.070 HEALTH/DENTAL INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city purchases insurance for health insurance and dental
insurance. Currently, rates are determined by the insurance plan based on all
expenses associated with coverage and allocated between single and family
coverages; and are reviewed and approved by Council for a July 1st effective
date.
   (B)   The city may pay 100% of individual employee premiums for those
employees and 50% of their immediate family members participating in the city's
insurance plan. This insurance program may be altered by the City Council based
on the city's ability to maintain the costs of the program. For a complete
version of the city's health and dental plan, please see the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.071 PERSONAL BENEFITS.
   (A)   Other types of insurances (accident, cancer, disability, intensive
care, life, long-term care, sickness, etc.) may be purchased through payroll
deduction. Costs and policies vary depending upon desired insurances.
   (B)   457(b) plans . The city also offers additional voluntary retirement
plans through deferred compensation payroll deductions. Employees do not pay
federal or state taxes on the payroll deductions. Employees are contributing to
their retirement. Deferral amounts are determined each year by the IRS.
Additional deferrals may be made if employees qualify. Employees can withdraw
assets from these accounts under the following conditions according to IRS
guidelines:
      (1)   Termination of employment;
      (2)   Retirement;
      (3)   Unforeseeable emergencies (subject to strict IRS guidelines); and
      (4)   Small accounts distributions (also subject to strict IRS
guidelines).
   (C)   For a list of providers and further information, please refer to the
City Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.072 WAGE GARNISHMENT.
   If the city receives a wage garnishment notice on any employee, it will be
processed the next pay period in accordance with the law. Also, whenever the
city is served with an order to withhold income from an employee, pursuant to
any statute, the city has the right to charge the applicable statutory
administrative fee from the employee's income.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.073 EMPLOYEE-INCURRED EXPENSES/ REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions set forth below, the city will provide a
credit card or reimburse employees for reasonable business travel expenses
incurred while on professional business away from the normal work location.
Business travel must be approved in advance by the department head or City
Manager.
   (B)   If not provided a credit card, any advances to cover conference costs
must be arranged by the employee and the department head at least seven days
prior to the conference date. Advances can be requested for the following:
      (1)   Travel: Federal rate at the time (IRS mileage).
      (2)   Hotel/motel room: Room rental expense.
      (3)   Meals: Up to a maximum of $300 for any stay exceeding two days and
two nights; $150 for any stay of less than two days (alcohol is specifically
excluded from reimbursement).
   (C)   Employee must keep all receipts related to the conference costs, along
with detailed accounting of the same, and must be submitted to the department
head and then to City Finance.
   (D)   Expenses for travel, meals and lodging of (1) any officer or employee
that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted
above; or (2) any member of the corporate authorities of the city may only be
approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate authorities of
the city. However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstance, the corporate authorities or City Manager may approve more than
the maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   The city shall not reimburse any elected official, employee or officer
for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities which
would otherwise be considered entertainment but which are excluded from the
prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
policy.
   (F)   Abuse of the travel regulations, including falsifying expense reports
to reflect costs not incurred by the employee may be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23)
§ 32.074 COMPENSATORY TIME IN LIEU OF CASH OVERTIME.
   (A)   The Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.,
allows public employers to compensate non-exempt employees for hours worked in
excess of 80 with compensatory time off ("comp time") in lieu of cash overtime
compensation. Such comp time must be credited at a rate not less than one and
one-half hours for each hour of employment.
   (B)   Employees may only be compensated with comp time in lieu of cash
overtime if the employee agrees, prior to performing the work in question, to
be compensated with comp time instead of cash overtime, either in a collective
bargaining agreement or other agreement. Employees may only accrue up to 80
hours of comp time.
   (C)   Employees will be permitted to use their accrued comp time within a
reasonable period after making a request so long as the use of the comp time
does not unduly disrupt the operations of the employee's department. An
employee who has accrued compensatory time off shall, upon termination of
employment, be paid for the unused compensatory time at a rate of compensation
not less than either the average regular rate received by the employee during
the last three years of the employee's employment or the final regular rate
received by the employee, whichever is higher.
   (D)   The ability to earn comp time in lieu of cash overtime may only be
available to certain employees, job titles or assignments. Any questions or
concerns regarding comp time should be directed to the City Manager.
   (E)   There are restrictions on the accumulation of comp time, which include
the following.
      (1)   Comp time cannot be accumulated in any pay period in which an
employee also uses an already accumulated comp time.
      (2)   Comp time cannot be used in conjunction with holidays. Holiday
hours cannot be compensated in comp time.
      (3)   Comp time cannot be used in conjunction with vacation or personal
days.
      (4)   In no event, except in the instance when an employee actually works
on a holiday, will any employee be paid more than one and one-half times the
usual hourly rate.
(Ord. 1129, passed 10-7-24)
EMPLOYEE LEAVES OF ABSENCE
§ 32.090 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   The purpose of sick leave is to provide income protection for
absences.
   (B)   Sick leave may be used for:
      (1)   Illness, disability, or injury of an employee.
      (2)   Appointments with a doctor, dentist, or other professional medical
practitioner.
      (3)   Events of illness, disability, or injury of a covered family member
of an employee's immediate family or household. (Covered family member can
include, but is not limited to, spouse/partner, children including step-
children, sibling, parents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild,
grandparent or stepparent).
   (C)   Regular full-time employees accrue 96 hours of sick leave per year at
eight hours per month. Accrual will be capped at 500 hours. Absences and use of
sick leave of three days or more must be excused with documentation by a
certified physician for the employee or family member. Use of sick leave for a
covered family member will be capped at 48 hours. Unused/unpaid sick time will
be turned into IMRF for service credit. Part-time employees may use their
accrued paid time off as sick time as well.
   (D)   A department head may direct an employee who appears ill to leave work
to protect the health of other employees. Employees who are ill more than two
days will provide a doctor's excuse for additional time. Employees who are
unable to return to work upon expiration of the accrued sick leave must request
a leave of absence without pay. Prior to returning from a sick leave over one
month long, the employee must submit a statement from a physician indicating
the employee can return to work and perform the essential duties of the job
with reasonable accommodation.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23; Am. Ord. 1109, passed
12-18-23)
§ 32.091 LIGHT DUTY.
   (A)   The best interests of the city and its employees are served when
injured or ill employees return to work as soon as they are able. Light duty
work is work which requires only a minimum of physical exertion, and can be
accomplished by an injured or ill employee without risk to the employee's
recuperation process and without potential risk of harm to others. When
employees are on leave of absence for an injury or illness, the department head
may recommend and the City Manager may approve a light duty assignment in
accordance with the procedures identified below. There is no guarantee of a
light duty assignment. Light duty assignments will be considered on a case-by-
case basis and shall be at the discretion of the department head or based on
the operational needs of the city.
   (B)   Further, light duty assignments are temporary and are reserved for
employees who will be able to recover from their injuries. Light duty
assignments are intended to benefit the employee and the city and to the extent
that light duty assignments cease to serve the operational needs of the city,
light duty assignments will be terminated.
      (1)   An employee may be required, or may volunteer, to work in an
available revised duty assignment, whether the injury was sustained on-duty or
off-duty. The number of light duty assignments available is limited. Therefore,
on-duty injuries have priority over off-duty injuries in the selection of light
duty assignments, and are at the discretion of the department head.
      (2)   The work the employee performs must be within the physical
limitations prescribed by the employee's and/or city-designated physician.
      (3)   The work the employee performs must have existed within the
department before the illness or injury occurred.
      (4)   No employee will be moved from his regular job in order to make a
light duty situation available to another employee.
      (5)   The performance of light duty work shall not otherwise disrupt the
functioning of the department within which the light duty is being performed.
      (6)   Employees may be removed from limited duty assignments if
appropriate work is not available, or if the employee cannot satisfactorily
perform the work assigned. In most cases, light duty assignments will not be
allowed for more than 90 days.
      (7)   It is recognized that the nature of the injury and the skills of
the employee will determine what assignments are made. The nature of the injury
and the skills of the individual must be balanced against the needs of the
department (e.g. an administrative or clerical employee with a broken arm may
be able to perform office work that a utility person or mechanic with the same
type of injury is unable to do).
      (8)   The city is the employer, not the department. It is the primary
goal of this policy that departments find alternative work assignments for
employees assigned to their respective departments. However, when the
employee's department head cannot find suitable work, suitable restricted work
may be sought in other departments.
      (9)   An employee who is authorized and assigned light duty work shall
continue in his or her status as an employee of the city, with the same wage
and benefits that were assigned to his or her regular position.
      (10)   The city may require the employee to submit to an examination by
another physician at the city's expense in order to determine the employee's
fitness for duty, even light duty. The determination of the city's physician
will govern in the case of a dispute between the city's physician and the
employee's physician. The city also reserves the right to review an employee's
status at any time during the duration of the light duty assignment.
      (11)   The decision of the City Manager shall be final with respect to
the determination of whether a light duty assignment is available within the
limits of the physician's restrictions. No light duty assignments will be made
permanent and requests for light duty may be denied where there is no
reasonable expectation of the employee returning to regular duty within 90
days.
      (12)   If an employee is granted light duty, the light duty assignment
generally shall not exceed 90 days. If at the end of that time, the employee is
still not medically released to perform full duties as defined by the
employee's official job description, he shall either: (1) be reclassified or
reassigned; or (2) be placed on a leave of absence with or without
compensation; or (3) apply for a disability pension; or (4) be subject to
commencement of the termination process. Such decision shall be made by the
City Administrator and department head based on the circumstances of each
specific case and in accordance with applicable laws.
      (13)   The city will treat pregnancy as any other non-job related
disability. Any restrictions imposed by a pregnant employee's physician or the
city-designated physician will be reviewed to determine if light duty
assignments are available consistent with the employee's prenatal restrictions.
      (14)   Failure to report for or to carry out the assignments of the
limited duty work status may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment.
      (15)   No light duty assignments shall result in overtime.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require the city to create a
light duty assignment for an employee. Employees will only be assigned light
duty assignments when the city determines that the need exists, and only as
long as such need exists.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.092 MILITARY LEAVE.
   The city will comply with the requirements of the Illinois Service Member
Employment and Reemployment Act, ILCS Ch. 330, Act 61, § 1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.093 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   In the event of a death in an employee's covered family member, an employee
may be granted bereavement leave. To attend the funeral or alternative to a
funeral of the covered family member; make arrangements necessitated by the
death of the covered family member; grieve the death of the covered family
member; or be absent from work due to (i) miscarriage, (ii) an unsuccessful
round of intrauterine insemination or of an assisted reproductive technology
procedure (e.g. artificial insemination or embryo transfer), (iii) a failed
adoption match or an adoption that is not finalized because it is contested by
another party, (iv) a failed surrogacy agreement, (v) a diagnosis that
negatively impacts pregnancy or fertility, or (vi) a stillbirth, an employee
may receive three days leave of absence with pay and up to two weeks (ten
working days) of unpaid bereavement leave. Covered family member is defined as:
parents, step-parents, spouse/partner, sibling, children, stepchildren,
grandparents, brother, sister, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
sister-in-law and brother-in-law. Requests may be made for an authorization of
leave involving the deaths of individuals who are not part of the employee's
immediate or extended family and leave may be granted at the discretion of a
supervisor or departmental director. An additional one day for travel may be
granted if distance is more than 250 miles one way. Bereavement leave shall not
affect any other leave.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 2-6-23)
§ 32.094 VESSA LEAVE.
   In accordance with the Victim's Economic Security and Safety Act, as
amended, the city will provide an unpaid leave of up to eight weeks per year
for an employee who is the victim of domestic or sexual violence or who has a
family member or household member who is a victim of such violence.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.095 EDUCATIONAL LEAVE.
   Supervisors may grant city employees leave for educational purposes to
attend conferences, seminars, briefings, or actual classes that are designed to
improve, maintain, or upgrade an employee's certifications, skills, and
professional ability. While on leave, the employee will receive their regular
daily wage for each day they would have worked.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.096 DISCRETIONARY UNPAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Departmental directors may grant leaves of absence, without pay or
salary, to employees for job-related reasons, such as further training or
study, which will enable employees to perform their usual and customary duties
with greater efficiency and expertise, or for a prolonged illness in the family
or child birth. Maximum leave is capped at six weeks. Departmental directors
shall assure employees that the position, or a similar position, will be
restored at the conclusion of the leave, unless the position or job was
eliminated by the City Council or state/federal legislation. Sick and vacation
leave will not accrue during the absence and insurance coverage will be
continued only at the specific request of the employee taking authorized leave
of absence. The city will not pay for any portion of the insurance coverage for
an employee on authorized leave.
   (B)   Unpaid leaves of absence shall not exceed six weeks and may be granted
by the department head, with approval by the City Manager, on a case-by-case
basis.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.097 JURY DUTY.
   Leave with pay shall be granted to all full-time city employees for time
spent in jury and grand jury service or when subpoenaed to give depositions or
appear in court on job-related cases. To receive full pay, employees shall
endorse or turn over to their supervisor any payment received (less mileage, if
applicable) for such jury or witness duty, such as jury pay vouchers and
checks, or other forms of compensation for witness fees.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.098 SCHOOL VISITATION RIGHTS ACT LEAVE.
   The School Visitation Rights Act leave affords employees an unpaid leave of
up to 24 hours during any school year, no more than four hours of which may be
taken on any given day to attend school conferences or classroom activities
related to the employee's child if those activities cannot be scheduled during
non-work hours. No leave may be taken by an employee unless the employee has
exhausted all accrued vacation leave, personal leave, and any other leave that
may be granted to the employee except sick leave and disability leave. Before
arranging attendance at the conference or activity, the employee shall provide
the employer with a written request for leave at least seven days in advance of
the time the employee is required to utilize the visitation right. In emergency
situations, no more than 24 hours' notice shall be required. The employee must
consult with his supervisor or department head to schedule the leave so as to
not disrupt unduly the operations of the employer.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.099 INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   City of Farmer City generally continues operations during inclement weather.
Whenever inclement weather or any other emergency situation makes it necessary
for the city to cancel work for all or certain employees, the affected
employees shall not be compensated for their regularly scheduled hours of work
during the work cancellation period, except to the extent that they elect to
use accumulated leave time. Employees are encouraged to use caution when
weather conditions make travel hazardous. If it is necessary to delay arrival
or to leave work early, employees are required to seek approval from their
supervisor.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
RESIGNATION, TERMINATION OR RETIREMENT
§ 32.110 RESIGNATION.
   (A)   Letter of resignation. A letter of resignation shall be given to the
department head, with a copy to the City Manager, at least two weeks before the
employee's last working day. The letter should state the reason for resignation
and the date of the last working day.
   (B)   (1)   Exit interview.  Prior to the last working day, the employee may
schedule an exit interview with the department head or designee and must
complete any necessary resignation/termination/ retirement forms at the City
Clerk's Office.
      (2)   Regardless of the separation reason, an employee must schedule an
exit interview with the City Clerk. The interview will be conducted to discuss
the circumstances regarding separation of employment and continuation of
insurance policies (COBRA).
      (3)   Employees are expected to return all City of Farmer City property
at the time of the exit interview.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.111 TERMINATION.
   (A)   Resignation or termination benefits. Upon resignation or termination
(including dismissal or reduction in force), an employee is entitled to all of
unused vacation time.
   (B)   Disability retirement. Qualified employees may retire from the service
of the city if they are disabled as "disabled" is defined by the Illinois
Pension Code.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.112 RETIREMENT.
   Any employee may retire from the service of the city if they have
accumulated full-time service with the city as outlined by the Illinois Pension
Code.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.113 FINAL PAYCHECK.
   (A)   Final paychecks will be issued on the regular payday of the period in
which employment is terminated. Arrangements will be made during the exit
interview for delivery of final paychecks.
   (B)   Payout of accrued vacation time minus any appropriate deductions will
be issued on the next regularly scheduled payday following termination of
employment.
(Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSING AND
DETERMINING CLAIMS UNDER PSEBA
§ 32.125 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a fair and efficient method for
determining the eligibility of a full-time employee for the benefits enumerated
under PSEBA through an administrative process, including if necessary, an
administrative hearing.
(Ord. 1026, passed 3-18-19; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1081, passed
3-7-22)
§ 32.126 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   As noted by the court in Pedersen, “the Act, however, does not provide any
guidance on the proper procedure for seeking [PSEBA] benefits.” This subchapter
and the application procedure of this section establishes guidance on the
proper procedure for Public Safety Officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the city.
   (A)   Public Safety Officers, or family member(s) of an injured or deceased
Public Safety Officer, ("applicant") must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within 30 days of filing a pension claim with the city
or within 30 days of the date of the adoption of this subchapter in the event
that an applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of adoption of
this subchapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking benefits under
PSEBA. The city shall notify applicant if the PSEBA application is incomplete
and applicant shall have five days to remedy their application. Failure to
timely file the full and complete application shall result in a forfeiture of
the benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly submit a complete application.
   (B)   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to the claim);
      (2)   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the city's
satisfaction, how the injury/ death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   An unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      (3)   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and medical
records and specifies the name and address for pertinent health care provider
(s);
      (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the name and
signature of the applicant or her or his authorized representative along with
legal proof of the representation and name and signature of witness authorizing
the collection of information pertinent to the incident review process;
      (5)   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the PSEBA
hearing;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board;
      (8)   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the City Manager’s office
in its entirety.
   (D)   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the city,
the completed application shall then be submitted to the city as the
preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and provided
to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the city
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a hearing officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten days prior to
the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the hearing officer in writing within seven days after being
served. The Hearing Officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at the
administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
(Ord. 1026, passed 3-18-19; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1081, passed
3-7-22)
§ 32.127 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a Hearing
Officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
   (A)   Authority of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall have all
of the authorities granted to her or him under common law relative to the
conduct of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      (1)   Preside over city hearings involving PSEBA;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
      (5)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
      (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
   (B)   Hearing Officer. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the position of
Hearing Officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come before this
city. In making the selection, the following information should be considered,
at a minimum:
      (1)   The individual's ability to comply with the job description as set
forth herein; and
      (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in employment and labor
law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice.
(Ord. 1026, passed 3-18-19; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1081, passed
3-7-22)
§ 32.128 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility
for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the city or by the
applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
   (A)   Record. The city shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by
the certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within 28
days of the date of the administrative hearing.
   (B)   Procedures. The city and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
   (C)   Evidence. The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   (D)   Final determination. A written determination by the Hearing Officer of
whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this section shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   (F)   Administrative records. All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's name with the
city.
(Ord. 1026, passed 3-18-19; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 4-5-21; Am. Ord. 1081, passed
3-7-22)
APPENDIX: FORMS
Receipt of Policy Manual Form
   I have received my copy of the Personnel Policy Manual for the City of
Farmer City, Illinois. I understand that this manual outlines and summarizes
the policies, practices, and benefit guidelines of the City. I have read and I
understand all of the information contained in the manual.
   Since the information in this manual is subject to change as situations
warrant, I understand that changes in the manual may override, revise, or
eliminate existing policies or practices currently contained in this manual. I
understand these changes will be communicated to me by a Supervisor or through
official notices and I accept responsibility for keeping informed of these
changes and following them.
   I further acknowledge my understanding that my employment with the City of
Farmer City is "at will" and may be terminated at any time, with or without
cause.
   I understand this manual replaces all previous handbooks, policies and
procedures, but does not supersede any current collective bargaining
agreements.
      ____________________________
      Employee Name (Print)
      ____________________________
      Employee Signature
      ________________________
      Date
Receipt of City Property Upon Employee Departure
_____________________________, the departing employee's Department Head, does
hereby certify that the following items belonging to the City of Farmer City
were returned to the City in acceptable condition from departing employee
________________________________.
_____ Cell phone                         ______ Computer/Laptop
_____ Keys                             ______ City Credit Card(s)
_____ Other electronic equipment __________________
(Description)
                                          
                                          
   __________________________________
   Department Head
   __________________________________
   Date
CHAPTER 33: PROCUREMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purpose and objective
   
33.02   Application
   
33.03   Purchasing categories
   
33.04   Equal opportunity/nondiscrimination policy
   
33.05   Purchases from city employees and officials
Procurement Procedures
   
33.10   Purchases exceeding $25,000
   
33.11   Purchases exceeding $5,000, but not exceeding $25,000
   
33.12   Purchases not exceeding $5,000
   
33.13   Emergency purchases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The purpose of this procedure is to provide for accountability in the
use of public funds and to promote efficiency in city operations.
   (B)   The objectives of this policy are to enable the city to procure public
works, supplies and services of sufficient quality at the most economical
price, in an open, forthright and ethical manner which complies with all of the
applicable state and federal laws and city ordinances.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed
1-15-18)
§ 33.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all purchases of public works, supplies and
services made by and for the city. This chapter shall incorporate, by
reference, the Governmental Joint Purchasing Act (ILCS Ch. 30, Act 525), the
Local Government Professional Services Selection Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 510),
the Public Works Contract Change Order Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 525), the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5) and any other applicable state law.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed
1-15-18)
§ 33.03 PURCHASING CATEGORIES.
   (A)   Purchases made by and for the city may be grouped under the following
categories:
      (1)   Purchases exceeding $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases exceeding $5,000, but not exceeding $25,000.
      (3)   Purchases not exceeding $5,000.
   (B)   The purchasing categories shall require the following levels of
authority for approval:
      (1)   Purchases exceeding $25,000 shall be made in accordance with the
procurement processes required by the applicable state law and shall be
approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Purchases exceeding $5,000, but not exceeding $25,000, shall be
approved by the City Manager.
      (3)   Purchases not exceeding $5,000, shall be approved by the City
Manager, or by a subordinate city employee designated by the City Manager.
      (4)   Certain items are annually let for bids by the Procurement Division
of the State of Illinois. Any unit of government in the state may avail
themselves of these bid prices. Purchasing through state purchasing may satisfy
the requirements for bidding even though the purchases may be in excess of
$25,000. Purchases in excess of $25,000 require City Council approval.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 974, passed
1-23-17; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 1-15-18)
§ 33.04 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/ NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that all contractors and/or vendors,
except those otherwise prohibited by state law and §
33.05, shall have an opportunity to compete in the procurement processes of the
city on an equal basis.
   (B)   All contracts for the purchase of public works, supplies and/or
services to which the city is a party shall contain a clause by which the
contractor/vendor certifies that he or she does not discriminate against any
worker, employee or applicant, or any member of the public because of race,
religion, color, national origin or sex. The contractor/vendor must also
certify that any subcontractor and/or supplier with whom he or she contracts in
order to provide such public works, supplies and/or services do not so
discriminate.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed
1-15-18)
§ 33.05 PURCHASES FROM CITY EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS.
   It is the policy of the city that any employee or elected official of the
city is prohibited from contracting, either as an independent contractor,
subcontractor or vendor, either in writing or by oral agreement or
understanding, to provide public works, supplies and/or services to the city.
This prohibition does not apply to the reimbursement of city employees or
elected officials for travel expenses and for small purchases of supplies or
services made on behalf of and for the convenience of the city. Also, this
prohibition does not apply to transactions where an employee or elected
official of the city contracts directly with a property owner or lessor for
work that is partially paid by a grant or reimbursement from the city.
(Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 1-15-18)
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
§ 33.10 PURCHASES EXCEEDING $25,000.
   (A)   Purchases of public works, supplies and services exceeding $25,000
shall be made through a formal bid process or an alternative procurement
procedure, as provided by state law, that provides due diligence and reasonable
assurance of compliance with the state law and the objectives of this chapter.
In all cases, purchases exceeding $25,000 shall be approved by the City Council
prior to the award of a contract.
   (B)   Procurement procedure.
      (1)   The City Manager shall review the need for the purchase, review
budget and expenditures to verify that appropriated funding is available.
      (2)   The City Manager, or designee, shall prepare an explanation of the
need, the specifications, a cost estimate and any documents required for the
solicitation of bids or proposals and identify the source of funding.
      (3)   The City Manager shall notify the City Council at a City Council
meeting of the need for the purchase, estimated cost and source of funding.
      (4)   If the City Council does not object to the purchase, the City
Manager will follow the appropriate procurement procedure to solicit and obtain
bids, quotes or proposals, as required by state law.
      (5)   If a formal bid procedure is required, or desired, for the
purchase, the City Manager will instruct the City Clerk to publish a notice of
call for bids in a newspaper of general circulation by at least one insertion
which shall be published at least ten days prior to the time designated for the
opening of bids. The notice shall include a general description of the public
works, supplies or service to be purchased, shall state the time, date and
place of the bid opening and shall designate where and when bid documents may
be obtained.
      (6)   If a formal bid procedure is used, bids shall be opened, tabulated
and analyzed by the City Manager, or designee, and reported to the City Council
for award of the contract to the lowest responsible bidder who meets the bid
specifications in accordance with state law. If an alternative procurement
procedure is used, the City Manager shall provide a written report and
recommendation for award of the contract to the City Council. This report shall
justify the cost and terms of the contract and demonstrate that due diligence
was exercised in the procurement process.
(Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 1-15-18)
§ 33.11 PURCHASES EXCEEDING $5,000, BUT NOT EXCEEDING $25,000.
   (A)   Purchases of public works, supplies and services exceeding $5,000, but
not exceeding $25,000, shall be made upon request by the City Manager, after
following a procurement procedure that provides due diligence and reasonable
assurance of compliance with the objectives of this chapter.
   (B)   Procurement procedure.
      (1)   The City Manager shall review the need for the purchase, review
budget and expenditures to verify that appropriated funding is available.
      (2)   The City Manager, or designee, will follow an appropriate
procurement procedure. It shall be the responsibility of the City Manager to
develop, implement, maintain and monitor any other necessary procurement
procedures, in addition to those required by this chapter, for all purchasing
categories in order to comply with the objectives of this chapter and all
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed
1-15-18)
§ 33.12 PURCHASES NOT EXCEEDING $5,000.
   (A)   Purchases of public works, supplies and services not exceeding $5,000
shall be approved by signature of the City Manager or his or her designee. When
possible, every effort shall be taken to secure at least three quotations
before deciding on a suggested vendor. The requesting department shall secure
the quotation themselves. The City Manager may delegate purchasing authority to
one or more designated subordinate city employees. The delegation of purchasing
authority shall be based upon the amount of, and/or other factors relevant to,
the purchase. Such delegation by the City Manager shall be made in writing and
be provided for information, only, to the City Council.
   (B)   Procurement procedure.
      (1)   The City Manager, or designee, shall review the need for the
purchase, review budget and expenditures to verify that appropriated funding is
available.
      (2)   The City Manager, or designee, will follow an appropriate
procurement procedure. It shall be the responsibility of the City Manager to
develop, implement, maintain and monitor any other necessary procurement
procedures, in addition to those required by this chapter, for all purchasing
categories, in order to comply with the objectives of this chapter and all
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 573, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 629, passed 11-1-93; Am. Ord. 827, passed
10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 1-15-18)
§ 33.13 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In the event of an immediate threat to the public health and safety of the
city, its citizens and/or public or private property, the City Manager, based
on his or her professional judgment and discretion, may authorize emergency
purchases which serve to protect such persons and/or property, but which may
not comply with provisions of this chapter. As soon as practicable after such
emergency purchase(s) is made, the City Manager shall submit a written report
to the City Council describing the reason for the emergency purchase(s), the
supplies and/or services purchased, the cost of the emergency purchase(s) and
the provisions of this chapter which were superseded.
(Ord. 827, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 1-15-18)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
Automobile Renting Use Tax
   
34.01   Tax imposed
   
34.02   Filing report; payment
   
34.03   Collection
Municipal Automobile Renting
Occupation Tax
   
34.15   Tax imposed
   
34.16   Filing report; payment
Municipal Utility Tax
   
34.25   Definitions
   
34.26   Tax imposed
   
34.27   Exemptions
   
34.28   Tax in addition to value of product or services
   
34.29   Effective date
   
34.30   Tax return required
   
34.31   Erroneous payments
   
34.32   Recovery of tax due
Locally Imposed and Administered
Tax Rights and Responsibility
   
34.40   Title
   
34.41   Scope
   
34.42   Definitions
   
34.43   Notices
   
34.44   Late payment
   
34.45   Payment
   
34.46   Certain credits and refunds
   
34.47   Audit procedure
   
34.48   Appeal
   
34.49   Hearing
   
34.50   Interest and penalty
   
34.51   Abatement
   
34.52   Installment contracts
   
34.53   Statute of limitations
   
34.54   Voluntary disclosure
   
34.55   Publication of tax ordinances
   
34.56   Liens
Tax Increment Financing (TIF)
Interested Parties Registry
   
34.65   Definitions
   
34.66   Establishment of registry
   
34.67   Maintenance of registry
   
34.68   Registration by residents
   
34.69   Registration by organizations
   
34.70   Determination of eligibility
   
34.71   Renewal and termination
   
34.72   Amendment to registration
   
34.73   Registries available for public inspection
   
34.74   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
34.75   Noninterference
   
34.76   Amendment of registration rules
Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
34.80   Tax imposed; rate
   
34.81   Collection of tax by retailers
Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation and Service Occupation Tax
   
34.90   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation and service occupation tax
imposed
Non-home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation and Service Occupation Tax
   
34.95   Non-home rule municipal retailers' occupation and service occupation
tax
 
   
34.99   Penalty
AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX
§ 34.01 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside the state and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state’s government in this city at the
rate of 1% of the rental price of that automobile while this subchapter is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-8 of the Illinois Municipal
Code.
(Ord. 496, passed 1-4-82)
§ 34.02 FILING REPORT; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Sections Two and Three of “An Act in Relation
to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal
Property to Purchasers for Use of Consumption” approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   (B)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 496, passed 1-4-82)
§ 34.03 COLLECTION.
   The tax provided for in this subchapter shall be collected from the persons
whose state address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in
this city.
(Ord. 496, passed 1-4-82)
MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 34.15 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in this city at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from those
sales made in the course of such business while this subchapter is in effect,
in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-7 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(Ord. 497, passed 1-4-82)
§ 34.16 FILING REPORT; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Every such person engaged in that business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Sections Two and Three of “An Act in Relation
to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Persons
Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   (B)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 497, passed 1-4-82)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 34.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas, or electricity for
use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, except for that
consideration received from the city; and for all services rendered in
connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
including cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and
for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any
deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages without any
deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied,
the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses
whatsoever. The term GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include any charges added to
customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9-221 or 9-222 of the
Illinois Public Utilities Act or any other separately stated charge added to
customers’ bills in respect of any tax or other governmental imposition.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 673, passed 12-2-96)
§ 34.26 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity, at the rate of three percent of the gross receipts from such
business originating within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of three percent of the gross
receipts therefrom.
   (C)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling of electricity for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the city, not for resale, at the rate of three percent of
the gross receipts therefrom.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
§ 34.27 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
8-11-1.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
§ 34.28 TAX IN ADDITION TO VALUE OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products
or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer’s business.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
§ 34.29 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect after publication and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after December 1, 1996. The city has
immediate need for the revenues to be produced by the tax imposed by this
subchapter in order to meet the cost of providing services necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, and this
subchapter is passed as an urgent measure.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
§ 34.30 TAX RETURN REQUIRED.
   (A)   On or before January 31, 1997, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the City Treasurer for the month of December, 1996, stating:
      (1)   His name.
      (2)   His principal place of business.
      (3)   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
      (4)   Amount of tax.
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of each and every month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding
period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   (D)   Provided however, that in the event that the tax for any given one
month is less than $5 per month, the taxpayer making the return shall file its
return to the City Treasurer and include payment to the City Treasurer on a
semi-annual basis. Said semi-annual return shall continue until such time that
the amount of taxes remitted to the city on said semi-annual bases exceed $75.
Thereafter, the taxpayer shall return to a monthly return and remittance.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.31 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
§ 34.32 RECOVERY OF TAX DUE.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after due date of such
amount.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 34.40 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.41 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.42 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.
   CITY. The City of Farmer City, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The city’s Mayor and City Council.
   HEARING OFFICER. An administrative individual appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the corporate authorities to conduct hearings and to
issue final determinations regarding the collection of all locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The city’s collector, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.43 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed (not less than seven calendar days) prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.44 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. Postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.45 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first to the tax due for the applicable period; second to the
interest due for the applicable period; and third to the penalty for the
applicable period.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.46 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund (shall be
four or less years) after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The city shall not grant credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 2% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.47 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.48 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
(within 14 days) of receipt of the written protests and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45 day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45 day period.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.49 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
34.48, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal. The taxpayer may request that a hearing officer conduct the hearing
rather than the local tax administrator.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator/hearing officer shall
preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.50 INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 15%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.51 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.52 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14 working day period or fails to demonstrate
good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.53 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed, or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.54 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.55 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
§ 34.56 LIENS.
   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 750, passed 12-4-00)
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING (TIF)
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
§ 34.65 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in these registration rules, the following terms shall have the
definitions set forth below.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§
11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES). Any organization(s) active within the city; any
resident(s) of the city; and any other entity or person otherwise entitled
under the act to register in a specific registry who has registered in such
registry and whose registration has not been terminated according to these
registration rules.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Farmer City, De Witt County, Illinois, a non-home
rule unit of local government under Section 7 (Counties and Municipalities
Other Than Home Rule Units) of Article VII (Local Government) of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that is intended to
qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a “redevelopment project area” under
the act and is subject to the “interested parties” registry requirements of the
act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the municipality consistent with the
requirements of the act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested party’s registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 11-74.4-4.2 for the redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.66 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The municipality shall establish a separate interested party’s registry for
each redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the
adoption of these rules or hereafter established. The municipality shall
establish a new registry whenever it has identified an area for study and
possible designation as a redevelopment project area. In any event the process
of establishing the new registry must be completed before the deadline for
sending any of the notices required by §
34.74 or any other notices required by the act with respect to the proposed
redevelopment project area which are to be sent to those on an applicable
registry.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.67 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The registries shall be maintained by the office of the City Clerk or his or
her designee. In the event the municipality determines that an officer other
than the City Clerk should maintain the registries, the municipality may
transfer the responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other office
provided that the municipality (i) gives prior written notice to all interested
parties not less than 30 days prior to such transfer and (ii) publishes notice
of such transfer in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.68 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete a registration form and submit the
registration form to the City Clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of
a current driver’s license, lease, utility bill, financial statement or such
other evidence as may be acceptable to the City Clerk to establish the
individual’s current residency.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.69 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested person with respect to
a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to
the City Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-page
statement describing the organization’s current operations in the city.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.70 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days of the City Clerk’s receipt of all
such documents. The City Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these regulation rules or as otherwise required under the act with respect to
the applicable redevelopment project area. If the City Clerk determines that a
registrant’s registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give
written notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall
be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.71 RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   An interested party’s registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three-year period, the City Clerk may
provide written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that
such registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews the
registration within 30 days of the City Clerk’s mailing of written notice. To
renew the registration, the interested party shall, within a 30 day period,
complete and submit the same registration form and supporting documentation
then required of initial registrants to permit the City Clerk to confirm such
person’s residency or such organization’s operations in the city. The
registration of all individuals and organizations whose registration form and
supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner and complies with
these regulation rules shall be renewed for an additional, consecutive three-
year period. If the City Clerk determines that a registrant’s renewal
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give written notice
to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration form
submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be
entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation within 30 days of receipt of the City Clerk’s notice.
If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the interested party’s
receipt of the City Clerk’s notice, the interested party’s registration shall
be terminated. Any interested party whose registration is terminated shall be
entitled to register again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.72 AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to
the City Clerk by mail of any of the following: (i) a change in address for
notice purposes; (ii) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and (iii) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the City Clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.73 REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours of the city. The registry shall include the name, address and
telephone number of each interested party and, for organizations, the name and
phone number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.74 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   (A)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(a), notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information, shall be sent by mail within a reasonable
period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the date, time and
place for the public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan;
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(a), notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not (i) add additional parcels of property
to the proposed redevelopment project area, (ii) substantially affect the
general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, (iii) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project, or (iv)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households
will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days
following the city’s adoption by ordinance of such changes;
   (C)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(c), notice of amendments
to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: (i) add additional
parcels of property to the redevelopment project area, (ii) substantially
affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan, (iii) substantially
change the nature of the redevelopment project, (iv) increase the total
estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more
than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted, (v)
add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan or (vi) increase
the number of low- or very-low-income households to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of
the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households will exceed
ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following the
city’s adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   (D)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)(9) for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
or more inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report;
such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after
completion of the certified audit report.
   (E)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-6(e), notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the
date of such preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.75 NONINTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the act.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
§ 34.76 AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the municipality, subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the act.
(Ord. 766, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 9-17-18)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
§ 34.80 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, 8-11-22.
(Ord. 1041, passed 11-18-19)
§ 34.81 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)    The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes are hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1041, passed 11-18-21)
MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION
AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 34.90 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
IMPOSED.
   (A)   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this subchapter is in effect. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24.
   (B)   Municipal grocery service occupation tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in division (B) above. The imposition of this tax is
in accordance with and subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-
24.
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1131, passed 10-7-24)
NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION
AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 34.95 NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION AND SERVICE OCCUPATION
TAX.
   (A)   Non-home rule municipal retailers’ occupation tax imposed. A tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or
registered with an agency of this state's government, at retail in this
municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in
the course of such business while this section is in effect. The imposition of
this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-1.3.
   (B)   Non-home rule municipal service occupation tax imposed. A tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of
making sales of service, of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in division (B) above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.4.
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Limitation on use of proceeds. The city shall only expend the proceeds
generated from any tax imposed by virtue of this section on: (a) expenditures
related to "municipal roads and streets, access roads, bridges, and sidewalks;
waste disposal systems; and water and sewer line extensions, water distribution
and purification facilities, storm water drainage and retention facilities, and
sewage treatment facilities[;]" (b) efforts to "reduce the levy for real estate
taxes or avoid an increase in the levy for real estate taxes that would
otherwise have been required" by the city; or (c) any other or further
permitted uses under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1 as may now or hereafter be
authorized therein.
   (E)   Qualified exemption of aviation fuel from both taxes. No provision of
this section shall be interpreted to impose any tax on aviation fuel, as
defined in Section 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, § 3), unless the proceeds of said tax are expended for airport-related
purposes, as that term is defined in Section 6z-20.2 of the State Finance Act
(ILCS Ch. 30, Act 105, § 6z-20.2), and said expenditures are made in compliance
with the certification requirements for airport-related purposes under Section
2-22 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 2-22).
(Ord. 1132, passed 11-4-24)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return,
or who willfully violates any provision of §
34.30 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $25 per day until the return is properly filed, and in addition
shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-96)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Coordinator
   
35.03   Agency functions
   
35.04   ESDA members may serve as mobile support team
   
35.05   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
35.06   ESDA responsibility in state emergency
   
35.07   Compensation
   
35.08   Reimbursement by state
   
35.09   Purchase contracts; procurement during disaster
   
35.10   Oath
   
35.11   Office space
   
35.12   Appropriation; levy of taxes
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the City Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
(ESDA) to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile actions or from
natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with “The Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Act of 1975.”
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.02 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the city ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him, shall be and act
as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.03 AGENCY FUNCTIONS.
   The City ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the city as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality    or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in
the “State ESDA Act of 1975.”
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.04 ESDA MEMBERS MAY SERVE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the City ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as
provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the City ESDA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a city employee or officer
while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director, shall
receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities
incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid
officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.05 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivision of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and by the State Director of
ESDA.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.06 ESDA RESPONSIBILITY IN STATE EMERGENCY.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile actions or
from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the City ESDA to
cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.07 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if
called for training by the state director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such city employees or officers shall receive for the
training time such compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.08 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the city in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.09 PURCHASE CONTRACTS; PROCUREMENT DURING DISASTER. 
   (A)   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the city coordinator of
ESDA,authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the city in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from man-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the City Coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the city, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to city contractor obligations, as
authorized by “The State ESDA Act of 1975" provided that if the Mayor meets at
such time he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by
that body.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.10 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the city ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
   I,                       , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
instructions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the             ESDA organization I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.11 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building, or elsewhere,
as may be provided for by the Mayor for the city ESDA as its office.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
§ 35.12 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Mayor may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to exceed
$.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes, as provided by the “The State ESDA Act of 1975,” however, that
amount collectible under such levy shall in no event exceed $.25 per capita.
(Ord. 469, passed 11-6-78)
CHAPTER 36: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 37: BUDGETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Revenue
   
37.02   Expenditure
   
37.03   Debt administration
   
37.04   Reserve/fund balance policy
   
37.05   Cash management
   
37.06   Accounting, auditing and financial reporting policies
§ 37.01 REVENUE.
   (A)   The city endeavors to maintain a diversified and stable revenue base
to shelter it from short-term fluctuations in any one revenue source. The
revenue mix combines elastic and inelastic revenue sources to minimize the
effect of an economic downturn.
   (B)   Through the city’s economic development program, the city will strive
to strengthen its revenue base.
   (C)   Each existing and potential revenue source will be examined annually
during the budget process.
   (D)   The city will maintain a revenue monitoring system to assist in trend
analysis and revenue forecasting.
   (E)   The city will oppose state and/or federal legislation that will
mandate costs to units of local government without providing a new or
increasing an existing revenue source to pay those costs.
   (F)   The city will set fees and user charges for its enterprise funds at a
level that fully supports the total direct and indirect cost of the activity.
Indirect costs include the cost of annual depreciation of capital assets.
   (G)   The city will attempt to not use one-time revenue for continuing
expenses. All new and continuing expenses will be based on known and
conservatively projected revenue sources. The identification of new, but one-
time revenue opportunities will be used to fund one-time expenses such as
capital equipment purchases, economic development activities and small capital
projects not involving on-going operating expenses.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
§ 37.02 EXPENDITURE.
   (A)   The city will maintain level of expenditures which will provide for
the public well-being and safety of the residents of the community.
   (B)   Expenditures will be within the confines of available funds.
   (C)   The city will maintain expenditure categories according to state
statute and administrative regulation.
   (D)   The city will forecast its expenditures for the year as part of the
annual budget process.
   (E)   Annual operating budgets should provide for adequate design,
construction, maintenance and replacement of the city’s capital plants and
equipment.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
§ 37.03 DEBT ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The city will target long-term borrowing for construction of long-
lived capital assets and economic development incentives only, with the
remainder financed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
   (B)   The city will maintain good communications with bond rating agencies
about its financial condition. The city will follow a policy of full disclosure
on every financial report and bond prospectus.
   (C)   Every project proposed for financing through general obligation debt
should be accompanied by a full analysis of the future operating and
maintenance costs associated with the project.
   (D)   When optimal, debt will be retired early.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
§ 37.04 RESERVE/FUND BALANCE POLICY.
   (A)   The city will maintain General Fund working capital and reserves. The
balance of the fund will be maintained at a level at least equal to 25% of the
total General Fund annual budgeted expenditures, excluding capital
expenditures. This reserve shall be created and maintained to provide the
capacity to:
      (1)   Offset unexpected downturns or revision in any general corporate
fund revenue.
      (2)   Provide a sufficient cash flow for daily financial needs at all
times.
      (3)   Offset unexpected increases in general corporate fund expenditures.
   (B)   The city will maintain its enterprise funds working capital and
reserves. The balance of the funds will be maintained a ta level at least equal
to 25% of the total fund annual budgeted expenditures, excluding capital
expenditures.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
§ 37.05 CASH MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   An investment policy, as adopted by the City Council, provides
guidelines for the prudent investment of the temporary idle cash and outlines
the policies for maximizing the efficiency of the cash management system. The
ultimate goal is to enhance the economic status of the city while protecting
its pooled cash.
   (B)   The cash management system is designed to accurately monitor and
forecast expenditures and revenues, thus enabling the city to invest funds to
the fullest extent possible. The city attempts to match funds to projected
disbursements.
   (C)   In order to maximize interest earnings, the city commingles the cash
of all funds. Interest and revenue derived from commingled cash is allocated to
the participating funds monthly based on the relative cash balance of each
fund.
   (D)   Criteria for selecting investments and the order of priority are:
      (1)   Safety. The safety and risk associated with an investment refers to
the potential loss of principal, interest or a combination of these amounts.
The city only invests in those investments that are considered safe.
      (2)   Liquidity. This refers to the ability to “cash in” at any moment in
time with a minimal chance of losing some portion of principal and interest.
Liquidity is an important investment quality especially when the need for
unexpected funds occur occasionally.
      (3)   Yield. Yield is the potential dollar earnings an investment can
provide, and sometimes is described as the rate of return.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
§ 37.06 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES.
   (A)   The city will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting
practices in conformance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
for governmental entities as promulgated by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board (GASB).
   (B)   The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with
accepted standards for local government accounting (according to GASB).
   (C)   Where possible, the reporting system will also provide monthly
information on the total cost of specific services by type of expenditure and,
if necessary, by fund.
   (D)   An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an
annual financial and compliance audit according to Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards (GAAS) and will publicly issue an opinion which will be incorporated
in the annual financial report.
   (E)   The city will endeavor to apply for the GFOA certificate of
achievement for excellence in financial reporting program.
   (F)   The city will use the modified accrual basis of accounting for its
governmental funds (general, special revenue, capital projects and debt service
funds). Revenues are recognized in the accounting period which they become
available and measurable. Expenditures are recognized in the accounting period
in which the liability is incurred.
   (G)   The city will use accrual basis accounting for its proprietary funds
(enterprise and internal service funds). Revenues are recognized in the
accounting period they are earned and become measurable. Expenses are
recognized in the accounting period in which the liability is incurred.
   (H)   The city will promote full disclosures in its annual financial
statements and its bond presentations.
(Ord. 1000, passed 1-15-18)
CHAPTER 38: ZONING COMMISSION
Section
   
38.01   Creation
   
38.02   Term
   
38.03   Organization
   
38.04   Powers
   
38.05   Records
   
38.06   Meetings
§ 38.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Zoning Commission for the city, which shall
consist of three members to be appointed by the Mayor with the review, consent
and approval of the City Council.
   (B)   All members shall reside within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
§ 38.02 TERM.
   The terms of the members of the Zoning Commission shall be one year.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
§ 38.03 ORGANIZATION.
   The Zoning Commission shall elect its own Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
other officers as it may deem necessary. The City Manager shall be the
Secretary of the Zoning Commission. The City Council may provide technical and
other services to the Zoning Commission as may be needed from time to time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
§ 38.04 POWERS.
   The Zoning Commission shall have all powers and exercise duties as are
provided for in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq. and to exercise those
other powers germane to the powers granted by this act, as may be conferred by
the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
§ 38.05 RECORDS.
   The Zoning Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which
shall be open to inspection by the City Council at all times.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
§ 38.06 MEETINGS.
   The Zoning Commission shall meet at a time as it may, by majority vote,
determine upon as regular meeting dates; or at any time upon call by the
Chairperson thereof or by any two members thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-24)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   BACKFLOW AND CROSS- CONNECTIONS CONTROL
      
51.   COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
      
52.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
54.   UTILITY SERVICES; BILLINGS
CHAPTER 50: BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
Technical Requirements
   
50.15   Potable water supply system
   
50.16   Cross-connections prohibited
   
50.17   Interconnections
   
50.18   Individual water supply
   
50.19   Connections to boilers
   
50.20   Prohibited connections to fixtures and equipment
   
50.21   Refrigerating unit condensers and cooling jackets
   
50.22   Protection against backflow and back-siphonage
Maintenance
   
50.35   Responsibility to maintain backflow preventers and vacuum breakers
   
50.36   Backflow preventers
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.50   Responsibility of Superintendent
   
50.51   Inspection; right of entry
   
50.52   Notification of violation
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The City Administrator or his designee, who is hereby invested with
the authority and responsibility for the enactment and enforcement of this
chapter.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood-level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the agency as meeting an applicable specification
stated or cited in this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the potable water
supply that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source of sources
other than its intended source. Back-siphonage is one type of backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent backflow.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. Backflow resulting from negative pressures in the
distributing pipes of a potable water supply.
   CHECK VALVE. A self-closing device which is design to permit the flow of
fluids in one direction and to close if there is a reversal of flow.
   CONTAMINATION. See POLLUTION.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between a potable water supply and
any unapproved source or system through which backflow can occur. Furthermore,
it is any potable water supply outlet which is submerged or can be submerged in
waste water and/or any other source of contamination. See BACKFLOW and BACK-
SIPHONAGE.
   DRAIN. Any pipe that carries waste water or water-borne wastes in a building
drainage system.
   FIXTURE, PLUMBING. Installed receptacles, devices or appliances supplied
with water or that receive or discharge liquids or liquid-borne wastes.
   FLOOD-LEVEL RIM. The edge of the receptacle from which water overflows.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, devices or practices in the water supply
system and its operation which create, or, in the judgment of the Director, may
create, a danger to the health and well-being of the water consumer. An example
of a health hazard is a structural defect in the water supply system, whether
of location, design or construction, that regularly or occasionally may prevent
satisfactory treatment of the water supply or cause it to be polluted from
extraneous sources.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. Any arrangement of plumbing including piping and fixtures
whereby a cross-connection is created.
   HYDROPNEUMATIC TANK. A pressure vessel in which air pressure acts upon the
surface of the water contained within the vessel, pressurizing the water
distribution piping connected to the vessel.
   OUTLET. The open end of the water supply pipe through which the water is
discharged into the plumbing fixture.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. Includes the water supply and distribution pipes, plumbing
fixtures and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains and building
sewers, including their respective connections, devices and appurtenances
within the property lines of the premises; and water-treating or water-using
equipment.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly of differential
valves and check valves including an automatically opened spillage port to the
atmosphere designed to prevent backflow.
   SURGE TANK. The receiving, nonpressure vessel forming part of the air gap
separation between a potable and an auxiliary supply.
   VACUUM. Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
   VACUUM BREAKER, NONPRESSURE TYPE. A vacuum breaker designed so as not be
subjected to static line pressure.
   VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE TYPE. A vacuum breaker designed to operate under
conditions of static line pressure.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water free from contaminants in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its bacteriological and chemical
quality shall conform to the requirements of the federal and state drinking
water regulations and to any regulations of the public health authority having
local jurisdiction.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable potability.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.15 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   A potable water supply system shall be designed, installed and maintained in
such manner as to prevent contamination from nonpotable liquids, solids or
gases from being introduced into the potable water supply through cross-
connections or any other piping connections or any other piping connections to
the system.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
§ 50.16 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Cross-connections between potable water systems and other system or
equipment containing water or other substances or unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where, as approved by the authority
having jurisdiction, suitable protective devices such as the reduced pressure
zone backflow preventer or equal are installed, tested, and maintained to
insure proper operation on a continuing basis.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   Interconnections between two or more public water supplies shall be
permitted only with the approval of the state authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 INDIVIDUAL WATER SUPPLY.
   Cross-connections between an individual water supply and a potable public
supply shall not be made unless specifically approved by the state authority
having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 CONNECTIONS TO BOILERS.
   Potable water connections to boilers shall be made through an air gap or
provided with an approved backflow preventer.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
§ 50.20 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS TO FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Connection to the potable water supply system is prohibited unless protected
against backflow in accordance with §
50.22 or as set out herein. Examples of fixtures and equipment from which the
potable water supply system must be protected include:
   (A)   Bidets.
   (B)   Operating, dissection, embalming and mortuary tables or similar
equipment. In such installation the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least 12 inches away from every point of the table or attachments.
   (C)   Pumps for nonpotable water, chemicals or other substances. Priming
connections may be made only through an air gap.
   (D)   Building drainage, sewer or vent systems.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 REFRIGERATING UNIT CONDENSERS AND COOLING JACKETS.
   Except where potable water provided for a refrigerator condenser or cooling
jacket is entirely outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant,
the inlet connection shall be provided with an approved check valve. Also
adjacent to and at the outlet side to the check valve, an approved pressure
relief valve set to relieve at five psi above the maximum water pressure at the
point of installation shall be provided if the refrigeration units contain more
than 20 pounds of refrigerants.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 PROTECTION AGAINST BACKFLOW AND BACK-SIPHONAGE.
   (A)   Water outlets. A potable water system shall be protected against
backflow and back-siphonage by providing and maintaining at each outlet:
      (1)   Air gap. An air gap, as specified in division (B) of this section,
between the potable water outlet and the flood-level rim of the fixture it
supplies or between the outlet and any other source of contamination.
      (2)   Backflow preventer. An approved device or means to prevent
backflow.
   (B)   Minimum required air gap.
      (1)   How measured. The minimum required air gap shall be measured
vertically from the lowest end of a potable water outlet to the flood rim or
line of the fixture or receptacle into which it discharges.
      (2)   Size. The minimum required air gap shall be twice the effective
opening of the potable water outlet unless the outlet is a distance less than
three times the effective opening away from a wall or similar vertical surface,
in which cases the minimum required air gap shall be three times the effective
opening of the outlet. In no case shall the minimum required air gap be less
than shown in Table A.
   (C)   Approval of devices.
      (1)   Before any device for the prevention of backflow or back-siphonage
is installed, it shall have first been certified by a recognized testing
laboratory acceptable to the agency. Devices installed in a building potable
water supply distribution system for protection against backflow shall be
maintained in good working condition by the person or persons responsible for
the maintenance of the system.
      (2)   The agency or his designee shall inspect routinely these devices
and if they are found to be defective or inoperative, shall require the
replacement thereof.
   (D)   Installation of devices.
      (1)   Nonpressure type vacuum breakers. Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall
be installed with the critical level at least six inches above the flood-level
rim of the fixture they serve and on the discharge side of the last control
valve to the fixture. No shutoff valve or faucet shall be installed beyond the
vacuum breaker. For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure sterilizers
the top of the vessel shall be treated as the flood-level rim but a check valve
shall be installed on the discharge side of the vacuum breaker.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principal backflow preventer. A reduced pressure
principal type backflow preventer may be installed subject to full static
pressure.
      (3)   Devices of all types. Backflow and back-siphonage preventing
devices shall be accessibly located, preferably in the same room with the
fixture they serve. Installation in utility or service spaces, provided they
are readily accessible, is also permitted.
   (E)   Tanks and vats; below rim supply.
      (1)   Where a potable water outlet terminates below the rim of a tank or
vat and the tank or vat has an overflow of diameter not less than that given in
Table B, the overflow pipe shall be provided with an air gap as close to the
tank as possible.
      (2)   The potable water outlet to the tank or vat shall terminate a
distance not less than 1½ times the height to which water can rise in the tank
above the top of the overflow. This level shall be established at the maximum
flow rate of the supply to the tank or vat and with all outlets except the air
gap overflow outlet closed. The distance from the outlet to the high water
level shall be measured from the critical point of the potable water supply
outlet. The Figure A illustrates this principal.
   (F)   Protective devices required. Approved devices to protect against
backflow and back-siphonage shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment
where backflow and/or back-siphonage may occur and where minimum air gap cannot
be provided between the water outlet to the fixture or equipment and its flood-
level rim.
      (1)   Connections not subject to back pressure. Where a water connection
is not subject to back pressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
A list of some conditions requiring protective devices of this kind is given in
the Table 3.86A of Ord. 553 hereby adopted by reference.
      (2)   Connections subject to back pressure. Where a potable water
connection is made to a line, fixture, tank, vat, pump or other equipment with
a hazard of backflow or back-siphonage where the water connection is subject to
back pressure, and an air gap cannot be installed, the City Administrator will
require adequate protection which may include the use of an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow preventer. A partial list of such connections is
shown on Table 3.86B of Ord. 553 hereby adopted by reference.
   (G)   Low pressure cutoff required on booster pumps. When a booster pump is
used on a water pressure booster system and the possibility exists that a
positive pressure of less than 20 psi may occur on the suction side of the
pump, there shall be installed a low pressure cutoff on the booster pump to
prevent the creation of a vacuum or negative pressure on the suction side of
the pump, thus cutting off water to other outlets.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
Table A: Minimum Air Gaps for Generally Used Plumbing Fixtures
        Minimum Air Gap
Fixture When Not Affected by Near Wall 1 When Affected by Near Wall 2
        (Inches)                         (Inches)
Table A: Minimum Air Gaps for Generally Used Plumbing Fixtures
                           Minimum Air Gap
Fixture                    When Not Affected by Near When Affected by Near Wall
                           Wall 1                    2
                           (Inches)                  (Inches)
Lavatories and other
fixtures with effective    1.0                       1.50
openings not greater than
1/2-inch diameter
Sink, laundry trays,
goose-neck bath faucets
and other fixtures with    1.5                       2.25
effective openings not
greater than 3/4-inch
diameter
Over rim bath fillers and
other fixtures with
effective openings not     2.0                       3.0
greater than 1-inch
diameter
Drinking water fountains-
single orifice 7/16
(0.437)-inch diameter or
multiple orifices having   1.0                       1.50
total area of 0.150 square
inch (area of circle 7/16-
inch diameter)
Effective openings greater See note 3                See note 4
than 1 inch
1 Side walls, ribs, or similar obstructions do not affect air gaps when spaced
from inside edge of spout opening a distance greater than three times the
diameter of the effective opening for a single wall, or a distance greater than
four times the diameter of the effective opening for two intersecting walls.
2 Vertical walls, ribs, or similar obstructions extending from the water
surface to or above the horizontal plane of the spout opening require a greater
air gap when spaced closer to the nearest inside edge of spout opening than
specified in note 1 above. The effect of three or more such vertical walls or
ribs has not been determined. In such cases, the air gap shall be measured from
the top of the wall.
3 Two times diameter of effective opening.
4 Three times diameter of effective opening.
 
 
Table B: Sizes of Overflow Pipes for Water Supply Tanks
Maximum Capacity of Diameter of    Maximum Capacity of  Diameter of Overflow
Water Supply Line   Overflow Pipe  Water Supply Line to Pipe (Inches ID)
to Tank             (Inches ID)    Tank
0 - 50 gpm          2              400 - 700 gpm        5
50 - 150 gpm        2½            700 - 1,000 gpm      6
100 - 200 gpm       3              Over 1,000 gpm       8
200 - 400 gpm       4
 
Figure A: Properly Protected Tank below Rim Supply
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/828d742ef98ea6d10b87a8525b343e4fb06ec26f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1710.jpg]
 
MAINTENANCE
§ 50.35 RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN BACKFLOW PREVENTERS AND VACUUM BREAKERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of building and premises owners to maintain
all backflow preventers and vacuum breakers within the building or on the
premises in good working order and to make no piping or other arrangements for
the purpose of bypassing backflow devices.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   Periodic testing and inspection schedules shall be established by the City
Administrator, and approved by the City Council, for all backflow preventers
and overhauls of each device shall be established in accordance with the age
and condition of the device. inspection intervals shall not exceed one year,
and overhaul intervals shall not exceed five years. These devices should be
inspected frequently after the initial installation to assure that they have
been installed properly and that debris resulting from the installation has not
interfered with the functioning of the device. The testing procedures shall be
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions when approved by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.50 RESPONSIBILITY OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   The City Administrator, or his designated agent, shall inspect the plumbing
in every building or premises in the city as frequently as the City Council in
its judgment, may, from time to time, deem necessary to ensure that the
plumbing has been installed in such a manner as to prevent the possibility of
pollution of the water supply of the city by the plumbing. The City
Administrator shall notify or cause to be notified in writing the owner or
authorized agent of the owner of any such building or premises, to correct,
within a reasonable time set by the City Council, any plumbing installed or
existing contrary to or in violation of this chapter; and which, in his
judgment, may, therefore, permit the pollution of the city water supply or
otherwise adversely affect the public health.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
§ 50.51 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The City Administrator, or his designated agent, shall have the right of
entry into any building, during reasonable hours, for the purpose of making
inspection of the plumbing systems installed in that building or premises,
provided that with respect to the inspection of any single-family dwelling
consent to such inspection shall first be obtained from a person of suitable
age and discretion therein or in control hereof. Consistent refusal to allow
inspection of a specific dwelling may be cause for requiring installation of
suitable backflow protection or discontinuation of potable water service.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
§ 50.52 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   The City Administrator shall notify the owner, or authorized agent of the
owner, of the building or premises in which there is found a violation of this
chapter, of such violation. The City Administrator shall also notify the owner
as to a specific date set by the City Council on or before which the violation
shall be removed or corrected, which time period shall be reasonable time after
notice of the violation. Upon failure of the owner to have the defect corrected
by the end of the specified time interval, the City Council may, if in its
judgment an imminent health hazard exists, cause the water service to the
building or premises to be terminated and/or recommend such additional fines or
penalties to be invoked as herein may be provided.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   The owner or authorized agent of the owner responsible for the maintenance
of the plumbing systems in the building who knowingly permits a violation to
remain uncorrected after the expiration of the time set by the City Council
shall, upon conviction thereof by the court, be required to pay a fine of not
less than $25 nor more than $500 for each violation. Each day of failure to
comply with the requirements of the chapter, after the specified time provided
under §
50.52 shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-1-89)
CHAPTER 51: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
Waterworks and Sewerage Department
   
51.010   Waterworks and Sewerage Department
   
51.011   Charges; rates
   
51.012   Jurisdiction of Department
   
51.013   Superintendent duties
   
51.014   Compensation
   
51.015   Monthly report
   
51.016   Books of account
   
51.017   Pay over money bank deposits
   
51.018   Read meters, bill for services
   
51.019   Applications; connections
   
51.020   Access to premises
   
51.021   Rates
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
51.030   Prohibiting wastes on public or private property
   
51.031   Sanitary sewage discharges prohibited
   
51.032   Private sewer systems prohibited
   
51.033   Connection to public sewer required
   
51.034   Street and sidewalk openings
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.040   Private sewage disposal system
   
51.041   Permit required
   
51.042   Inspection
   
51.043   Compliance with state requirements
   
51.044   Connection to public sewer
   
51.045   Operation
   
51.046   Interference with local health department
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.055   Unauthorized connections
   
51.056   Unlawful disposal
   
51.057   Permits
   
51.058   Conditions for permit issuance
   
51.059   Costs and expense
   
51.060   Separate building sewer required; exception
   
51.061   Use of old building sewers
   
51.062   Construction requirements
   
51.063   Elevation
   
51.064   Prohibited connections
   
51.065   Connection requirements
   
51.066   Notification of superintendent before connection
   
51.067   Excavation requirements
   
51.068   Repair of defective sewers
   
51.069   Breaking into sewer
   
51.070   Water pressure ejectors
   
51.071   Inspection and approval
Use of the Public Sewers
   
51.080   Prohibited discharge to sanitary sewer
   
51.081   Discharge to designated sewers or natural outlet
   
51.082   Prohibited discharge to public sewers
   
51.083   Harmful wastes prohibited; discharge restrictions
   
51.084   Pretreatment; equilization of waste flows
   
51.085   Interceptors to be provided
   
51.086   Maintenance of facilities
   
51.087   Installation of control manhole required
   
51.088   Laboratory analyses required
   
51.089   Standards for measurements and tests
   
51.090   Special arrangement for city treatment of industrial waste
   
51.091   Discharges to sewers, approval by Wastewater Treatment Superintendent
Extension of Public Sewers
   
51.100   Connection to public sewer
   
51.101   Size of sewer
   
51.102   Shared cost of extension
Protection of Sewage Works from Drainage
   
51.110   Destroying or tampering with waterworks and sewage system
Use of Public Water Required
   
51.120   Private water systems prohibited
   
51.121   Connections to public water main required
   
51.122   Permit required; applications
   
51.123   Permit fees
   
51.124   Opening in street; barricades
   
51.125   Separate water service required; exception
   
51.126   Seals
   
51.127   Water meters
   
51.128   Access to premises by superintendent
   
51.129   Installation of water service pipes and meters
   
51.130   Connection to standard water main
   
51.131   Cross-connection not permitted
   
51.132   Inspection and approval of service pipes
   
51.133   Use of water without meters
   
51.134   Temporary meters
   
51.135   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply
Extension of Public Water Mains
   
51.145   Where extension required
   
51.146   Size and construction details
   
51.147   Payment for public water main extension
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.160   Entrance to property for inspection required
   
51.161   Observation of safety rules required
Water and Wastewater Service Charges
   
51.170   Definitions
   
51.171   Water service charges
   
51.172   Wastewater service charges
   
51.173   Free service prohibited; meter required
   
51.174   Bills
   
51.175   Service discontinuance
   
51.176   Restoration
   
51.177   Lien
   
51.178   Revenues
   
51.179   Accounts
   
51.180   Notice of rates
   
51.181   Access to records
   
51.182   Appeals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Federal Government:
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.) as amended,
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   (B)   State Government:
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of the State of
Illinois.
   (C)   Local Government:
   ORDINANCE. This chapter.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Farmer City.
   CITY. The City of Farmer City, DeWitt County, Illinois.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of the Combined Waterworks and Sewerage
Departments of the City of Farmer City or his authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   COLLECTOR. The Treasurer or the person designated by the City Council to
render bills for water and sewer service and to collect all money due
therefrom.
   TREASURER. The duly elected Treasurer of the City.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (D)   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued
by the Administrator, or, where appropriate by the Director after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Act.
   (E)   Clarification of word usage: SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissible.
   (F)   Wastewater and its characteristics:
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations in
Illinois.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   ppm. parts per million by weight.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 200° C. expressed in milligrams per liter.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substances discharged,
permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial
or business establishment or processor from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; or
      (2)   has a flow of greater than ten percent of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
      (3)   has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Section 307 (a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   (G)   Sewer types, and appurtenances:
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary or
combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes
sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part, of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meter) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SADDLE. A sewer connection device designed for use when tapping an existing
main.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   (H)   Treatment:
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with “waste treatment plant” or “wastewater treatment plant” or
“pollution control plant.”
   (I)   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes
required to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
transport effluent to a watercourse.
   (J)   Watercourse and connections:
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   (K)   User types:
   USE CLASS. The type of user “residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial,” or “industrial” as defined herein.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   (L)   Water mains and appurtenances:
   WATER MAIN. A pipe or conduit for carrying water.
   PUBLIC WATER MAIN. A water main in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   WATER SERVICE PIPE. The extending from a building to water main.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
WATERWORKS AND
SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
§ 51.010 WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT.
   The combined waterworks and sewerage system in the city shall be maintained
and operated as a separate department and hereafter in this chapter shall be
referred to as the Department.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.011 CHARGES; RATES.
   A charge shall be made to the residents of said city which shall be
reasonable for the use and service of such waterworks and sewerage system, and
such charges or rates for that purpose shall be established and such rates
shall be sufficient to pay the cost of the operation and maintenance of the
entire waterworks and sewerage system of said city, to provide an adequate
depreciation account, to pay the interest on and principal of all bonds, which
by their terms are payable from the revenues of the waterworks and sewerage
system and to create and maintain the accounts established by the ordinance
authorizing the construction of the combined waterworks and sewerage system and
providing for the issue of Waterworks and Sewerage Revenue Bonds of said city.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.012 JURISDICTION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Waterworks and Sewerage Department under the direction of the
Superintendent and such other officers and employees as may be from time-to-
time lawfully appointed, shall have the supervision, management and control
subject to the corporate authorities, of the maintenance, enlargement and
operation of the waterworks and sewerage system owned and controlled by said
city and all matters and things connected with the operation maintenance and
extension of said waterworks and sewerage system and preserving the property
belonging thereto.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.013 SUPERINTENDENT DUTIES.
   There shall be a Superintendent of the Waterworks and Sewerage Department to
be appointed by the City Council who shall have supervision over all buildings,
sewers, manholes, mains, treatment works, wells, appurtenances and equipment
used in the furnishing of waterworks and sewerage service in the city and shall
see that the object and purposes of the Waterworks and Sewerage Department are
carried out and that the waterworks and sewerage system is conducted on an
economical, businesslike basis, and for that purpose, it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent and all of the officers, employees and servants of said
Department to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and to observe and
obey and carry out the orders and directions of the City Council. The
Superintendent shall prepare and keep at City Hall a complete atlas of the
waterworks and sewerage system with all connections and other appurtenances
distinctly recorded therein.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.014 COMPENSATION.
   The Superintendent and other officers and employees of the Waterworks and
Sewerage Department shall receive as compensation for their services amounts to
be fixed by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.015 MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Superintendent shall, not later than the fifth day of each and every
month, or more often if required, submit a report in writing to the City
Council listing therein, but not limited to, the following data:
   (A)   Applications for service approved.
   (B)   Number of metered and unmetered customers connected to the system at
the beginning and the end of period.
   (C)   Details of any major repairs and extensions to the system or other
facts pertinent to his duties in the conduct of his office.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.016 BOOKS OF ACCOUNT.
   The City Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept full and complete books of
accounts separate and apart from any other Waterworks and Sewerage Department
with dates and sources. The City Clerk shall also keep such other books
relating to the Waterworks and Sewerage Department as the City Council may from
time-to-time direct. All such books, accounts and papers pertaining to said
Department shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of the City
Council, any member thereof, the holder of any outstanding Waterworks and
Sewerage Revenue Bonds or any duly authorized agent or agents of such holder.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.017 PAY OVER MONEY BANK DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall no later than seven days after the receipt thereof,
deposit into the properly authorized bank account of the city Waterworks and
Sewerage Department all monies collected by the City Clerk from any source
whatsoever, taking the duplicate bank deposit ticket or receipt and filing it
in the City Clerks office. The City Clerk is expressly prohibited from keeping
the monies of the Department in his hands or in the hands of any person or
corporation to his use beyond the time which is hereby prescribed for the
deposit of the same in the proper bank to the credit of the Waterworks and
Sewerage Department and any violation of this provision shall subject him to
immediate removal from office.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.018 READ METERS, BILL FOR SERVICES.
   The Superintendent or such officer or employee of the Waterworks and
Sewerage Department as the City Council shall direct, shall read water meters
of said city, issue water and sewer connection permits, and shall perform such
other duties as now are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by law or the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.019 APPLICATIONS; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to make any connection with said waterworks and
sewerage system or plant or have the use thereof shall first make an
application to said Superintendent upon a blank form or forms furnished by said
Department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the part of the
applicant that all the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of any
ordinance relating to the waterworks and sewerage system will be complied with;
that all water and sewerage rates, assessments and rents and all fines and
penalties assessed, charged or imposed against said applicant upon the property
described in said application will be paid. When the applicant hereunder has
complied with all of the provisions of the ordinance of the city, a permit
shall then be issued by the Superintendent authorizing that the connection be
made and specifying the size thereof.
   (B)   No building sewer shall be laid or used to serve two or more distinct
premises or buildings without written permit of the Superintendent and a permit
fee shall be obtained for each premise served.
   (C)   No building water service shall be laid or used to serve two or more
distinct premises or buildings without written permit of the Superintendent and
a permit fee shall be obtained for each premise served.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.020 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The Superintendent and every person authorized by him and all
inspectors shall have ready access to the premises, place or buildings served
by said waterworks and sewerage system and it shall be unlawful for any person
to interfere with, prevent or obstruct said Superintendent or such other person
or inspector in his work hereunder. Every user of said waterworks and sewerage
system shall use the same upon the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in this chapter.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of; but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.021 RATES.
   All consumers, users, or properties connected to the system of the city
shall pay such rates for the use and service of the waterworks and sewerage
system in such manner from time-to-time.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.030 PROHIBITING WASTES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 SANITARY SEWAGE DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer
of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 75 feet of the property line.
   (B)   In all cases where a public sewer main is now installed, or hereafter
may be installed in the city, all inhabitants or users located on any lot or
parcel or real estate fronting, abutting on, or within a distance of 75 feet
from the public sewer to the nearest property line, of any such subdivided lot,
or parcel of real estate on any such street, alley, public way or easement,
shall at the landowner’s expense, make, or cause to be made, connection to such
public sewer main within three months hereafter or within six months after the
installation of such public sewer main, if the same be not now installed. All
users shall discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection, which
they theretofore may have had with any other private line, privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.”
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 677, passed 3-3-97; Am. Ord. 678, passed 4-
7-97) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 STREET AND SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   All openings made in streets and sidewalks shall be protected at all times
by sufficient barriers, on which signal lights or flares shall be placed and
maintained after dark, together with such other provisions as are contained in
an ordinance pertaining to street openings.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.040 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.033, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection fee of $25
dollars shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 24 hours (excluding weekends and holidays)
of the receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.043 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 3/4 acres. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.033, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.045 OPERATION.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 INTERFERENCE WITH LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Local Health
Department.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.055 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential, wastewater service, and
      (2)   To commercial, institutional/ governmental or industrial wastewater
service.
   (B)   In either case the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. A permit and inspection fee of $500 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the
application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 3-18-24)
§ 51.058 CONDITIONS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.059 COSTS AND EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.060 SEPARATE BUILDING, SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.062 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which will be subject
to the approval of the Superintendent, and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.064 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.065 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made
at the `Wye Branch,’ if such branch is available at a suitable location. If the
public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located Wye
Branch is available, the owner shall at his expense install a Wye Branch at the
public sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent. If the public
sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located Wye Branch
is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to receive the
building sewer with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45
degrees. A 45 degree elbow may be used to make such connection with a spigot
and cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The
invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or
at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint
shall be made and the connection made secure and water tight by encasement in
concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by
the Superintendent.
   (C)   All new connections tributary to the combined sewer system of the city
shall comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   New construction: All new inflow connections to the combined sewer
system shall be designed to minimize and/or delay contribution to the combined
sewer system.
      (2)   New construction connection: Domestic waste connection shall be
separate from the inflow connection to the combined sewer for all new
construction in order to facilitate disconnection if a storm sewer becomes
available.
   (D)   Disconnection of inflow sources on combined sewer system: Should a
storm sewer be constructed within 200 feet of a property line, the property
owner shall connect all inflow sources that are connected to the combined sewer
to the storm sewer within six months of the construction of the storm sewer.
   (E)   The sewer plant superintendent may for good reason direct that the
actual connection to a public sewer line be made at a point other than one to
the sewer line easement, street or other existing sewer line usage, adjacent to
the property line of the landowner. Should he do so, the city shall in addition
to providing the sewer tap, also pay the additional cost for such connection as
directed by the superintendent to be at other than the point where the
landowner’s property would be perpendicular to said sewer main.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 678, passed 4-7-97) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 NOTIFICATION OF SUPERINTENDENT BEFORE CONNECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
at least 24 hours (excluding weekends and holidays) before the building sewer
is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent, or his
representative.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent, and
no backfill shall be replaced until the sewer pipes laid therein have been
inspected.
   (B)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 REPAIR OF DEFECTIVE SEWERS.
   Whenever a sanitary building sewer or drain thereto is obstructed, or if
found to be broken or defective so that sewage or drainage escapes into
surrounding soil, or into adjacent premises, repair or replacement may be
ordered by the Department. Such repairs shall be at the expense of the owner or
person in control of such property.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 BREAKING INTO SEWER.
   When a part of the building sewer system is broken into, such break shall be
properly repaired by replacing the broken part with a corresponding new part.
No patching of such break will be accepted.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 WATER PRESSURE EJECTORS.
   Water pressure ejectors or siphons shall not be installed for the
discharging of any sewage or waste unless adequately protected against back
siphonage.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.071 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All building sewer pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by
the Superintendent or other persons under his direction and no such sewer pipes
shall be covered until they have been so inspected.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.080 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE TO SANITARY SEWER.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater roof runoffs subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 DISCHARGE TO DESIGNATED SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLET.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.082 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha. fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.083 HARMFUL WASTES PROHIBITED; DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F, (65° C).
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F, (0° and
65° C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (I)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
   (J)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted by
the Superintendent in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
   (K)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (L)   Waters or wastes contains substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.084 PRETREATMENT; EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.083 of this subchapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto,
and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
51.090 of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.085 INTERCEPTORS TO BE PROVIDED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 INSTALLATION OF CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 LABORATORY ANALYSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per
year. The industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 STANDARDS FOR MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.090 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT FOR CITY TREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, in accordance
with §
51.172, hereof, by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.091 DISCHARGES TO SEWERS, APPROVAL BY WASTEWATER TREATMENT SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Wastewater Treatment Superintendent.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on
written approval of the Wastewater Treatment Superintendent, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (B)   Owners of all other wastewater collection systems, whether public or
private, with combined sewers tributary to the city’s wastewater collection
system shall have procedures in place prior to the discharge of any material to
the city’s system, which shall be approved by the Wastewater Treatment
Superintendent to ensure that the following items are achieved consistent with
federal, state and local standards:
      (1)   Inspect the collection system on a regularly scheduled basis.
      (2)   Clean and maintain sewers, catch basins and regulators on a
regularly scheduled basis.
      (3)   Inspect and perform preventative maintenance on all lift stations.
      (4)   Repair collection system problems in a timely manner. Replace
sewers where necessary.
      (5)   Detect and eliminate illegal connections.
      (6)   Detect, prevent, and eliminate illegal connections.
      (7)   Operate the collection system to maximize storage capacity. Operate
the combined sewer portions of the collection systems to delay the entry of
storm flow into the system.
      (8)   Operate the treatment and collection systems to maximize treatment.
(Ord. 1089, passed 9-6-22)
EXTENSION OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.100 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   Where it is desired to connect a property to a public sewer, where the
property lies more than 75 feet from a public sewer, an extension of the public
sewer shall be made by the property owner.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.101 SIZE OF SEWER.
   The size of the sewer to be built shall be determined by the Superintendent
but in no case shall it be less than eight inches in diameter. All extensions
to the public sewer shall be made with Vitrified Clap Pipe conforming to ASTM
C-700 Extra Strength with ASTM C425 joints or ABS Pipe conforming to ASTM D-
2680 with solvent or mechanical seal type joints. Manholes shall be constructed
at each change in direction (horizontal and/or vertical) and not more than 400
feet apart on straight sewers. Construction methods shall be in accordance with
the “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois”
adopted by the City Council and on file in the office of the Superintendent.
All construction shall be subject to the inspection of the Superintendent or
other designated representatives.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.102 SHARED COST OF EXTENSION.
   Where an eight inch sewer is extended, the city will pay for 25% of the cost
of such construction, and for the entire cost of engineering fees. The abutting
property owners shall pay the remainder of the cost. Where a sewer larger than
eight inches in diameter is extended, the city will pay the difference in cost
between the cost of constructing the larger size sewer and the cost of
constructing an eight inch sewer plus 25% of the cost of constructing an eight
inch sewer and for the entire cost of engineering fees. Abutting property
owners shall pay the remainder of the cost. The City Council shall prescribe
rules for collection of the ends prior to construction of the improvements.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
PROTECTION OF SEWAGE
WORKS FROM DAMAGE
§ 51.110 DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, remove, deface, or tamper with any conduit,
structure, appurtenance, manhole, catchbasin, cover, or equipment which is a
part of the Waterworks System of the city. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC WATER REQUIRED
§ 51.120 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person having its residence or place of business within the territorial
limits of the city waterworks and sewerage system shall be permitted to secure
water for such residence, or place of business located in the city, otherwise
than through the water mains of the city, whenever the water mains of the water
system of said city are adjacent to, or within 75 feet of any subdivided lot,
or parcel of real estate, upon which said residence or place of business is
situated.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.121 CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC WATER MAIN REQUIRED.
   In all cases where a public water main is not installed, or hereafter may be
installed in any street, alley, public way or easement in the city, all
inhabitants or users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting,
abutting on, or within a distance of 75 feet from said public water main in the
nearest property line, of any such subdivided lot, or parcel of real estate on
any such street, alley, public way or easement, shall at their expense make, or
cause to be made connection to such public water main within three months after
the installation of such public water main, if the same be not now installed.
All users shall discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection
which they theretofore may have had with any other private water supply.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.122 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public water main, or appurtenance
thereof, without having first obtained a written permit from the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person desiring to make any connection with the said water system,
or have the use thereof, shall first make application to the Office of the City
Clerk upon a blank form or forms furnished by said office. Said application
shall contain an agreement on the part of the applicant, that all the rules,
regulations, conditions, and provisions of all ordinances of the city will be
complied with; that all fees, deposits, water rates, charges, rents and all
fines and penalties assessed, charged or imposed against said applicant, upon
the property described in said application will be paid. When the applicant
hereunder has complied with all the provisions of the ordinances of the city, a
permit shall then be issued by the City Clerk authorizing the connection to be
made.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.123 PERMIT FEES.
   The fees to be charged for a permit to tap, or otherwise make a connection
with said Water System shall be determined in such a manner and amounts as
shall be prescribed by ordinance, adopted by the City Council from time-to-time
and are at this time fixed at $750, which sum shall include the cost of
furnishing and installing all necessary apparatus from the water main to the
property line (not to exceed 75 feet) by the city waterworks department. All
excavations and other materials required shall be furnished by the property
owner of the property.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 691, passed 5-4-98; Am. Ord. 1114, passed
3-18-24)
§ 51.124 OPENING IN STREET; BARRICADES.
   All openings made in streets and sidewalks shall be protected at all times
by sufficient barriers on which signal lights or flares shall be placed and
maintained after dark, together with such other provisions contained in an
ordinance pertaining to street openings.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.125 SEPARATE WATER SERVICE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate, and independent water service pipe shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no water service pipe is available or can be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
water service pipe from the front building may be extended to the rear building
and the whole considered as one building water main.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 1092, passed 10-3-22) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.126 SEALS.
   (A)   No person not duly authorized shall turn on any service stop or use
water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty of fine of $200 for each
offense, and the person so using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall
be liable to pay therefore at the regular water rates without discount.
   (B)   No seal placed by the Waterworks and Sewerage Department for the
protection of any meter, valve, fitting or other water connection shall be
defaced or broken except on written authority from the Superintendent.
   (C)   No person or persons, other than members of the Waterworks and
Sewerage Department shall use water from any fire hydrant connected with the
Waterworks System of the city, except for extinguishing fires or unless
especially authorized by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.127 WATER METERS.
   (A)   All water consumers supplied by the Waterworks and Sewerage Department
of the city shall be supplied through meters only except that in cases where it
is temporarily impracticable to set a meter, the use and consumption of water
shall be governed by other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All meters used in connection with said Waterworks System shall be
purchased by the user from the city. After installation all meters shall be
given to the city and shall remain the property of the city for all time.
   (C)   After the meter is placed, only officers or employees of the
Waterworks and Sewerage Department shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any
manner interfere with the same. A meter stop or valve furnished and installed
by the consumer shall be placed on each side of the meter.
   (D)   The ordinary cost of keeping each meter in repair shall be paid by the
city. The person upon whose application any meter is installed or the then
owner and/or occupant of the premises served shall be jointly and severally
liable for any breakage or damage done to such meter, including damage by
freezing, hot water or breakage or damage done to such meter, including damage
by freezing, hot water or breakage and also for the theft thereof and the cost
of making good such loss or damage shall be paid by the owner and/or the
occupant of the premises in which such meter was installed as soon as the bill
for same is presented and the amount therefore shall be a lien against the
premises for which said meter was installed to the extent and with the same
effect as water rates.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, mar, destroy or
in any manner to interfere with any meter. It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant to notify promptly the said Department of defects in any such meter or
of its failure to register properly the quantity of water passing through the
same.
   (F)   The Superintendent shall in all cases determine the kind, size, and
pattern of water meters to be installed and no other kind shall be installed at
any time. Water meters shall be located at such places and in such manner as
the said Superintendent shall direct, within the premises to be served or in
boxes or vaults as he shall determine and all such installations shall be made
in accordance with the specifications to be prescribed by the said
Superintendent and such meter locations must be so situated as to prevent
freezing of water flowing through such meters.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.128 ACCESS TO PREMISES BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent and every person authorized by him and all meter
inspectors shall have ready access to the premises, place or buildings where
such meters are located for the purpose of reading, examining, testing and
repairing the same, and examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of
water, and it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere
with, prevent or obstruct said Superintendent or such other person or inspector
in his work hereunder. Every consumer of water shall take the same upon the
conditions prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.129 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPES AND METERS.
   (A)   The connection from the main to the curb stop shall be placed at least
four feet below the level of the ground and the service pipe shall be laid
sufficiently waving so that it shall be at least one foot longer than if laid
in a straight line and shall be placed in such manner as to prevent rupture or
breakage from settling of the ground. All service pipes shall be of Type K
copper tubing and shall be of not less than 3/4 inch nominal diameter.
   (B)   No person whether owner or occupant in possession or control of any
building, structure or premises into which water is supplied through the city
Waterworks System shall be allowed, without written permission from the City
Council to supply other persons or families or to supply water from such
building or premises to any other building structure or premises. The supply of
water to a building, structure or premises of any person who violates any of
the foregoing provisions of this section, shall be shut off and stopped
forthwith, and the water shall not again be turned on to such building,
structure or premises from which it was cut off until there shall have been
paid to said city such sum of money as the City Council shall deem properly due
the city.
   (C)   If after the water supply shall have been turned on to any building,
structure or premises, it shall be found by any officer or employee of the said
city that fraudulent representations have been made by the applicant for such
water supply or that water is being used in or upon such building, structure or
premises for purposes not set forth in the application made for such water
supply or that there is willful and unreasonable use or waste of water, the
Superintendent or such employee of the city as he shall designate shall have
the authority and it shall be his duty to cut off and stop the supply of water
to such building, structure or premises until the person or persons responsible
for such fraudulent representation or for such use of water or willful or
unreasonable waste thereof, shall pay the city such additional sum of money for
such water supply or on account of such unreasonable waste of water as the
Superintendent or Council shall find properly to be due the city. Every person
supplied with water from the city Waterworks System shall, at his or her own
cost and expense, have installed and kept in repair all pipes leading from the
curb stop to his or her building, structure or premises as are supplied with
water through such service pipe.
   (D)   Each water service pipe shall be connected with said water main and
shall extend horizontally at right angles with said water main to a point at
least 20 feet from the center line of the street and shall there be provided
with a bronze curb stop of not less than three-fourths of an inch in diameter
to be installed within a telescopic shut-off box of the best quality of cast
iron or first grade steel pipe.
   (E)   The water main must he tapped at an angle of 45 degrees with the
vertical, and the corporation stop must be turned so that the T handle will be
on top.
   (F)   The owner shall pay for the entire cost of installation of the service
pipe from the corporation stop to the building. All repairs for service pipes
beyond the curb stop and plumbing system of buildings shall be made by and at
the expense of the owners of the premises served. If a leak is discovered the
owner shall be given notice to repair it within 48 hours. If he fails to do so,
the city may repair any service pipes, and if this is done the cost of such
repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of the premises served.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.130 CONNECTION TO STANDARD WATER MAIN.
   In all cases where a standard water main is now installed or hereafter may
be installed in any street, alley, public way or easement in the city all water
users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting or abutting on any
such street, alley, public way or easement, shall make or cause to be made
connection to such water main and pay the tapping charges therefore within
three months hereafter or within six months after the installation of such
standard water main if the same be not now installed, and all users shall
discontinue within the same period of time, any connection which, they
theretofore may have had with any other water line.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.131 CROSS-CONNECTION NOT PERMITTED.
   Whenever a system of water supply piping, either inside or outside of any
building, receives its supply from any source other than the waterworks system
of the city, such system shall be kept entirely separate from and no cross-
connections or connections of any kind shall be made with any pipe or system of
piping which receives its supply from the city Waterworks System. Water which
has once been used for any purpose whatsoever shall not be returned to the
building’s water supply system. Any person, firm, association, corporation or
partnership violating this section shall be fined not less than $200 nor more
than $500 and each day of violation shall be deemed as a separate violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.132 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF SERVICE PIPES.
   All service pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent or other persons under his direction and no such service pipes
shall be covered until they have been inspected.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.133 USE OF WATER WITHOUT METERS.
   Before a permit for the use of water shall be issued where meters cannot
conveniently be used, the person applying for the same shall deposit $40 with
the City Clerk as a payment on account of water to be used by him. On or before
30 days from the date of the permit, the person to whom such permit is issued
shall file with the Water Department a statement in writing, verified by his
affidavit, showing fully the purpose for which the water was used by him for
that time, and the amount and location of all work done by him during said time
in connection with which any water was used, or required. The Superintendent
shall ascertain from said statement and any other information, the amount due
for water so used. If the amount so found to be due, together with all other
fees and costs chargeable against such person is less than the sum deposited,
the surplus shall be paid back to the depositor. If the amount due for water so
used is more than the sum deposited, then the excess shall be paid at once to
the Water Department by such persons. If such person desires to continue to use
the water after he shall have filed his statement, he shall again deposit $40
with the Superintendent and shall continue to make deposits thereafter and in
the same manner as is provided herein with respect to the first deposit, and
the method of determining the amount of water used and the charge for the same
shall be the same as the provisions respecting the first deposit as herein
before provided.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.134 TEMPORARY METERS.
   When a temporary meter is required the user shall deposit $40 with the city
as a payment on account of water to be used by him. The meter shall be read and
billing made monthly. Payment shall be made in sufficient amount to restore the
deposit to $40 each month. Upon the return of the meter in good condition to
the city the amount of the deposit less any outstanding charges for water
furnished or meter repairs necessary will be returned.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.135 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited. The use or
attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within the corporate
limits of the City of Farmer City, as a potable water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
This prohibition expressly includes the City of Farmer City.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 897, passed 10-17-11) Penalty, see §
51.999
EXTENSION OF PUBLIC WATER MAINS
§ 51.145 WHERE EXTENSION REQUIRED.
   Where it is desired to connect a property to a public water main, where the
property lies more than 75 feet from a public watermain, an extension of public
water main shall be made by the property owner.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.146 SIZE AND CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
   The size of the water main to be built shall be determined by the City
Council. In no case shall it be less than four inches in diameter. All
extensions to public water mains shall be made with cast iron pipe having
single gasket type joints. All pipe shall be “enamelined.” Construction methods
shall be in accordance with the “Standard Specifications for Water Main
Construction” adopted by the City Council and on file at the office of the City
Clerk. All construction shall be subject to the inspection of the
Superintendent or other designated representatives.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.147 PAYMENT FOR PUBLIC WATER MAIN EXTENSION.
   Where a four inch water main is extended the city will pay for 25% of the
cost of the construction of water main and for the entire cost of engineering
fees and any fire hydrants installed. The abutting property owners shall pay
the remainder of the cost. Where a water main larger than four inches in
diameter is extended, the city will pay the difference in cost between the cost
of constructing the larger size water main and the cost of constructing the
four inch water main, plus 25% of the cost of constructing a four inch water
main and for the entire cost of engineering fees and any fire hydrants
installed. Abutting property owners shall pay the remainder of the cost. The
City Council shall prescribe the rules for collection of funds prior to
construction of the improvements.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.160 ENTRANCE TO PROPERTY FOR INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.161 OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES REQUIRED.
   (A)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in §
51.160 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the Superintendent shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operating,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of; but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE
§ 51.170 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this chapter shall be set out in this section.
   (B)   The definitions contained in §
51.001, as amended, shall apply to this subchapter.
   (C)   Types of charges:
   WATER USER CHARGE. The charge for a one-month period levied on all users of
the Combined waterworks and sewerage system for water service. The user charge
shall be computed as outlined in §
51.171 of this subchapter.
   WASTEWATER USER CHARGE. The charge for a one-month period levied on all
users of the Wastewater Facilities. The user charge shall be computed as
outlined in §
51.172 of this subchapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user
charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement cost.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water and sewer treatment works.
   SURCHARGE. The assessments in addition to the basic wastewater user charge
which is levied on those persons whose wastes, are greater in strength than the
concentration values established in §
51.172 of this subchapter.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance”
includes replacement.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be 30 years from the date of start-
up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state or federal grant.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.171 WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for water service charges. The water service charge for the use
of and for service supplied by the water facilities of the city shall consist
of a customer service charge, a basic user charge and applicable surcharges.
   (B)   The customer service charge is levied on all users to cover the city’s
fixed costs associated with the establishment and maintenance of water
production and distribution system.
   (C)   (1)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance plus replacement and capital carrying charges (O, M & R)
costs and shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters.
      (2)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the annual water volume used.
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water facilities, including a replacement fend for the year, for
all works categories.
         (c)   Estimate projected annual charges on debt associated with the
construction of new water treatment system and the maintenance charges
associated with these facilities.
         (d)   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to water facility
categories by volume.
   (D)   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by Certified Public Accountant for the city in its annual
audit report. The water service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in local capital costs or O, M & R costs.
   (E)   The users of the water services will be notified annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the water operation, maintenance and
replacement.
   (F)   Measurement of flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of Cu. Ft.
   (G)   Basic user charge. There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic user charge. Usage in excess of 200 cu. ft. per month will be charged at
a rate of $2.87 per 100 cu. ft. This may be adjusted annually for the COLA.
   (H)   Customer service charge. A customer service charge of $11.22 per month
shall be applied to all bills in addition to the basic user charge. This may be
adjusted annually for the COLA.
   (I)   Users whose premises are outside the corporate limits of the city
shall pay 1.5 times the rate set-out in divisions (G) and (H) above.
   (J)   Bulk water sold to tank wagons located at a location provided by the
city shall be charged at the rate of $30 per 1,000 gallons. Water will be
dispensed during weekday work hours under the supervision of water department
personnel.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 669, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 846, passed
3-10-08; Am. Ord. 1079, passed 2-7-22; Am. Ord. 1123, passed 7-2-24)
§ 51.172 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
city shall consist of a basic user charge and applicable surcharges.
   (B)   (1)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance plus replacement (O, M & R) costs and shall be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five day, 20 degree centigrade biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
of 200 mg/l.
         (b)   A suspended solids content of 250 mg/l.
      (2)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and pounds
of SS to be treated.
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         (c)   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to each user class by
volume, BOD and 55.
         (d)   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS.
         (e)   Compute costs per 100 Cu. Ft. for normal domestic strength
sewage.
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations
in excess of normal domestic strengths.
   (C)   (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and 55 (250 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters, or sewage
meters for all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentrations for
BOD and 55 respectively.
      (2)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent and shall be binding as a basis
for surcharges.
   (D)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not
less often than annually, by Certified Public Accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or O, M & R costs.
   (E)   The users of the wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation,
maintenance and replacement.
   (F)   Measurement of flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of Cu. Ft.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his water from sources other than the Public Waterworks
System, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the city.
   (G)   Basic user charge: There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic user charge. Usage in excess of 200 cu. ft. per month, based on water
usage, will be charged at a rate of $2.87 per 100 cu. ft. This may be adjusted
annually for the COLA.
   (H)   Customer service charge: A customer service charge of $7.95 per month
shall be applied to all bills in addition to the basic user charge. This may be
adjusted annually for the COLA.
   (I)   Surcharge rates: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
         per lb. of BOD:       $.14
         per lb. of SS:          $.05
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 780, passed 7-21-03; Am. Ord. 846, passed
3-10-08)
§ 51.173 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED; METER REQUIRED.
   No free service of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city
shall be furnished to any user either a person, firm, organization or
corporation, public or private. Every user of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall have a meter and every water meter shall be sealed. It
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the said city to maintain and to replace all meters as he shall
determine have become inaccurate of faulty. Also, he shall report the master
meter reading to the City Clerk on the first of each month.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.174 BILLS.
   (A)   The water service charge and sewer user charge for service shall be
payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user
of the service shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the city and
the service is furnished by the city only upon the condition that the owner of
the premise, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the city.
   (B)   If any water meter at any time fails to register the quantity of water
running through it, the quantity shall be determined and the charge made based
on the amount registered during the month preceding the date of such failure or
the usage for the same month of the preceding year, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Bills for the water and sewer service shall be tendered as of the
first day of the month succeeding the period when the service is rendered.
   (D)   Bills and notices will be mailed or delivered to the customer’s last
address as shown by the records of the city when due, but failure to receive
same will not relieve the customer from his obligation to pay the bill.
   (E)   All bills are due and payable on the 10th of the following month. A
penalty of 10 percent of the month shall be added to all bills not paid before
this date. Where such 10th day is a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the bill is
payable on the next successive business day without any additional penalty. All
bills become delinquent if not paid by the 15th of the same month. All accounts
in arrears will be charged at a rate of 1.5% per month, on the outstanding
balance, on the 15th of the month.
   (F)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (E) of this section.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 12-7-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.175 SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   In the event the charges for such service become delinquent as defined in §
51.174 of this chapter, the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
cause notification to be given in writing to the owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the service that such delinquency exists and
that services shall be discontinued without further notice.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.176 RESTORATION.
   Restoration of service or reconnection of a service connection will be made
at the city’s discretion after the customer has:
   (A)   Paid all unpaid bills for service;
   (B)   Made a deposit to ensure future payment of bills for customers with a
history of delinquency as defined by the city;
   (C)   Paid in advance a restoration or reconnection fee of $50;
   (D)   Corrected any condition found in violation of any applicable
provisions of these rules, regulations and conditions of service.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.177 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for water and sewer service shall be a lien upon the premises
as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains
unpaid 40 days after it has been rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder
of DeWitt County a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and
notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for water and sewer service subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of water or sewer service whose bill is unpaid is not
the owner of the premises and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises, if his address is known to the Clerk,
whenever such bills remain unpaid for a period of 40 days after it has been
rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in the
following section.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water or sewer service charges
shall be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall
be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the city.
   (E)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters, against any property for which water bill has remained unpaid 40 days
after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.178 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the system shall
be deposited in the Waterworks and Sewerage Account. It shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to render bills for service and all other charges in connection
therewith and to collect all monies due thereon. Said Clerk shall be covered,
to the maximum amount on hand at any time, by an approved corporate surety
bond.
   (B)   All such revenues and monies shall be held by the City Clerk separate
and apart from the Clerk’s private funds and separate and apart from all other
funds of the city and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall
be delivered to the City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed
by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the system and
all other funds and monies incidental to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the and
designated as the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund for the city. Said Treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect the manner provided by the statute
of the State of Illinois, Chapter 24 of the “Revised Cities and Villages Act,”
effective January, 1942 and all laws amendatory thereof and supplementary
thereto of 1978.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.179 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an
audit by a Certified Public Accountant of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage system as well as other
necessary information.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to file with the City
Council a monthly report which shall include for the month:
      (1)   A list of the TURN-OFF NOTICES provided by the Superintendent of
the System;
      (2)   A list of the current month’s delinquencies;
      (3)   The number of bills mailed;
      (4)   The number of cubic feet billed or sold;
      (5)   The number of cubic feet pumped into the system;
      (6)   A list of the various revenues of the system for the month and
total year to date, along with the expenses for the month and year to date;
      (7)   And, the cash balances and investments on hand in each of the
several funds of the waterworks and sewerage system.
   (C)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the separate revenues and operating expenses of the
waterworks facilities and wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost,
to indicate that the sewer service charges are sufficient to generate revenue
at least equal to costs. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total cubic feet pumped to the water distribution
system.
      (2)   Flow data showing total cubic feet received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year.
      (3)   Billing data to show total number of cubic feet billed for water
use and sewer use.
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.180 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the City Clerk shall be
filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of DeWitt County and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of waterworks and the
sewerage system of said city on their properties and it shall be the duty of
the City Clerk and such other officers of this city to take all action
necessary or required by the laws of the state thereunto enabling to file all
claims for money due to the city and to prosecute and enforce such claims in
the manner, form and time as permitted by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.181 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois and United States Environmental Protection Agencies or their
authorized representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers,
and records of the city which are applicable to city’s system of user charges
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the Special and General
Conditions to any state or federal grant.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.182 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
51.171 and
51.172 shall be available to a user within ten days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by the City Council within 30 days after notification
of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
§ 51.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not less than $200 and not more
than $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason
of such violation. (Ord. 652, passed 8-21-95)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
51.173 and
51.174 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500
dollars for each offense. (Ord. 651, passed 8-21-95)
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.135 shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 897, passed 10-17-11)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Application of service
   
52.02   Rental property service deposit
   
52.03   Inspection
   
52.04   Service voltage
   
52.05   Non-standard service voltage
   
52.06   Types of customer service taps
   
52.07   Fee schedule for service taps
   
52.08   Temporary service tap charges
   
52.09   Discontinuance and reconnection of service
   
52.091   Lien
   
52.10   Metering
   
52.11   Use of service
   
52.12   Increase in customer’s load
   
52.13   Resale of service
   
52.14   Responsibility of continuity and quality of service
   
52.15   Motors and apparatus
   
52.16   (Reserved)
   
52.17   Relocation of service
   
52.18   Construction of services
Rates and Charges
   
52.30   Establishment
   
52.31   Residential rate R1
   
52.32   Commercial rate C1
   
52.33   Commercial rate C1-D
   
52.34   (Reserved)
   
52.35   Municipal purpose rate M1
   
52.36   Municipal streetlighting rate M1LT
   
52.37   Private outdoor lighting
   
52.38   Primary metering discount
   
52.39   Net metering
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 APPLICATION OF SERVICE.
   Any person desiring to purchase electrical energy from the Municipal
Electric System, shall make written application for electric service to the
City Clerk on a printed form provided for this purpose and to be signed by the
customer. All such applications shall contain the printed agreement that the
applicant will conform to and abide by the latest edition of the National
Electric Code and all of the rules, regulations and provisions of the
ordinances of the city pertaining to the use of and regulation of electrical
energy to customers, as well as the standards of installation and maintenance
of electrical wiring, apparatus, appliances and fixtures in the premises used,
in use at the time of application and as altered or amended after completing
the said application for electric service.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.02 RENTAL PROPERTY SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All non-owner residential or commercial customers shall be required to
make a service deposit of $150 with the city for standard service as a
guarantee for the payment of city utility bills. When the applicant owns a
mobile home, but rents a lot, he shall be required to pay the above described
deposit. This deposit is in addition to any fees required for the cost of
service connections as outlined herein for new or revised services.
   (B)   All persons listed on lease or contract shall be held financially
responsible for any utilities at the stated address or any subsequent address
should a balance be owed to the city.
   (C)   The city shall mandate that each responsible adult be named on the
lease or contract.
   (D)   A lease shall be provided to City Hall prior to services.
   (E)   The city shall not connect utility service until any outstanding
balance has been satisfied.
(Ord. 855, passed 4-20-09; Am. Ord. 948, passed 4-20-15)
§ 52.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The application for new service shall contain a description of the
premises to be served. The Superintendent of the Electrical Department or his
representative shall have the option of making an inspection of electric wiring
of the premises before electrical energy is supplied to determine the
efficiency and conditions of the wiring.
   (B)   By inspecting a premise, and approving it for electric service, the
city takes no responsibility in guaranteeing the safety of adequacy of the
wiring.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.04 SERVICE VOLTAGE.
   (A)   The standard service voltage for all locations as follows:
      (1)   Residential:
         120 volts - single phase
         120/240 volts - single phase
      (2)   Commercial & Power:
         120/240 volts - single phase
         120/208 volts - three phase - 4 wire
         120/240 volts - three phase - 4 wire
   (B)   Any other service voltage is considered non-standard.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.05 NON-STANDARD SERVICE VOLTAGE.
   (A)   There may exist locations where an existing distribution network has
other than standard secondary service voltage.
   (B)   If a non-standard service voltage or 3 phase service is desired, the
owner shall consult with the City Electrical Department before purchasing heavy
duty residential, commercial or industrial equipment for installation on
Municipal Utility System. If it is practical in the opinion of the
Superintendent of the Electrical Department, the non-standard service voltage
may be provided, however the owner may bear the additional expense at the
discretion of the city of special distribution transformers and the risk of
extended loss of service in the event of a transformer failure.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.06 TYPES OF CUSTOMER SERVICE TAPS.
   The following types of customer service taps are provided by the Municipal
Utility.
   (A)   Overhead tap - Overhead service area. Overhead service shall be
delivered to the individual residence by means of overhead cable from the
electric system pole structure to a designated point on the dwelling of
sufficient height to comply to applicable code clearances. The location of the
service entrance shall be such as to provide for the shortest route from the
structure to the home as practical. The owner or contractor shall provide the
service head, riser conduit, and all other materials and installations required
to make a complete installation. Conductor tails of two foot length shall
extend out the riser weather head to facilitate making connections to the tri-
plex service conductors provided by the Municipal Utility. Service lengths
installed by the Municipal Utility shall be limited to 75 feet from the
property line. Any additional length of conductors or additional support
facilities may be installed by the Municipal Utility at the customer’s expense
at the discretion of the city. Meter sockets shall be provided by the city, but
installed by the owner or the owner’s contractor, and shall be located at a
minimum height of five feet above final grade with all meters located outside
of any building, dwelling or restricted area.
   (B)   Underground tap - underground service area.  
      (1)   In areas designated for underground services, the services shall be
delivered to the residences by means of a buried tri-plex cable from pedestal,
vault transformer located on or near the property line to a point designated on
the dwelling. The location of the service entrance shall be such as to provide
the shortest routes from the pedestal, vault transformer to the houses as may
be practical. All obstructions such as debris, dirt piles, brush, etc., shall
be removed prior to the installation of service, and a lot shall be graded to
within one foot of final grade. The owner or contractor shall provide the
necessary equipment to provide a complete installation as indicated on the
attached drawings including ditch digging and backfilling. Service length
provided by the Municipal Utility shall be limited to 75 feet from the property
line. Any additional length of service shall be supplied by the utility at the
customer’s expense.
      (2)   Underground service is not guaranteed by the electric utility as
circumstances may force service to be provided to any location by overhead
service.
   (C)   Underground tap - overhead service area. Underground service in an
overhead service area will be available, provided engineering considerations
will not prohibit service, in the opinion of the Superintendent of the
Electrical Department.
   (D)   Overhead service - underground service area. Overheard service in an
underground service area will not be permitted unless in the opinion of the
Superintendent of the Electrical Department, that due to the engineering
considerations this is the only feasible and practical manner in which service
may be provided.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.07 FEE SCHEDULE FOR SERVICE TAPS.
   The following fees shall be paid by each customer requiring service:
   (A)   Fee - standard 120/240 volt single phase 3 wire service.
 
Overhead tap/overhead service area                              No charge
Underground tap/underground service area (including mobile home $150*
pedestal)
Underground tap/overhead service area (new service)             $200*
(Existing overhead to be changed to underground)                Actual cost
*Cost based on maximum cable run of 75 feet (as measured from property line
to weather head or first pedestal and a maximum cable run of 75 feet from
pedestal to pedestal). If additional cable is required, the customer will
be charged for the additional cable at $4.50 per foot, or at actual cost,
should such cost be greater.
 
   (B)   For non-standard service.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation requesting special electrical
service (3 phase service or a special voltage) requiring additional line and/or
addition or special transformers to supply electrical energy shall pay, prior
to the time of electrical service is installed, a sum equal to 15% of the cost
of additional line, transformers and labor necessary to make the necessary
installation. The cost of such service shall be computed by the Superintendent
of the Electrical Department and if the cost of equipment and labor exceeds
$2,000 the applicant shall pay 15% of the first $2,000, plus 50% of the excess
over and above $2,000. The city will consider any special circumstances or
applications, should the installation costs for non-standard service merit
special consideration, and the city may, at the city's discretion, consider
reduced amounts and/or special payment terms.
      (2)   If a customer elects and makes a request to have a non-standard
service, and the feasibility of such service is approved by the Superintendent
of the Electrical Department to provide such service, the customer assumes all
risks incurred for such special nonstandard service. These risks would include
extended outages that may be due to transformer failure until the transformer
is repaired or a suitable replacement can be obtained and installed.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94; Am. Ord. 1125, passed
8-5-24)
§ 52.08 TEMPORARY SERVICE TAP CHARGES.
   Charges for temporary service connection shall be $60 and the usage shall be
charged under the city’s C1 rate. If temporary service is eventually changed to
a permanent service, the customer will be charged the appropriate rate under
the rate ordinance.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.09 DISCONTINUANCE AND RECONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may discontinue electric service when any customer:
      (1)   Fails to make payments in accordance with the terms of a deferred
payment agreement;
      (2)   Fails to comply with the rules of the city pertaining to electrical
service;
      (3)   Fails to provide city personnel access to the electric meter after
receiving estimated bills for three billing periods, after the city makes
written request for access, mailed to the customer's billing address of record;
      (4)   When the city receives notification from a banking institution that
the customer's check as payment for electrical service is dishonored for any
reason;
      (5)   Fails to pay a past due bill for the same class of service
furnished at the same or at another location. For purposes of this section, the
city may discontinue service if the customer had not paid the service as set by
the disconnection notice and fails to enter into a deferred payment agreement,
acceptable to the city; or
      (6)   Tampers or alters meter, or causes an unsafe condition.
   (B)   Residential customers must have a past due balance of not less than
$60 before a discontinuance notice may be issued.
   (C)   Such discontinuance of service shall be on the last Wednesday of each
month.
   (D)   The city may only discontinue service after mailing a written notice
of discontinuance to the customer's billing address. Discontinuance of service
may only be more than seven days after the notice was deposited in the U.S.
Mail with first class postage fully prepaid. Each month, the Administrative
Assistant shall prepare a list, and issue work orders, in accordance with the
provisions of division (A) of this section, and shall deliver copies of the
work orders to electrical department personnel. All customers who meet criteria
in division (A) of this section, preceding, shall be placed on the list. The
only exceptions to inclusions shall be persons who enter and perform in
compliance with a deferred payment agreement in accordance with the provisions
of division (H) of this section, weather deferral of disconnection of division
(F)(l) of this section, health needs of division (F) (2) of this section or
whose total past due amount is less than $60 as provided in division (B) of
this section.
   (E)   Service shall not be discontinued after 2:00 p.m. on any day, on a
holiday, on a Saturday or on a Sunday unless the city is able to reconnect
service within the four hours immediately following the discontinuance, and
issue work orders.
   (F)   Discontinuance of electrical service for residential customers,
including tenants, for non-payment of bills where the electricity is used as
the only source of heating or where electricity is the only source of control
or operation of heating equipment shall not be made:
      (1)   On any day when the National Weather Service forecast for the
following 24 hours for the city includes a forecast that the temperature will
be 32° F or below; or
      (2)   For up to a maximum of 60 days when discontinuance of service will
aggravate an existing serious illness of any person who is a permanent resident
of the premises where service is to be discontinued, provided that:
         (a)   The illness must be certified to the city by a registered
physician or by the DeWitt Piatt Bi-County Health Department, in writing,
including the name of the ill person, a statement that he or she is a residence
of the premises where the service is to be discontinued, the name business
address and telephone number of the certifying party, the nature of the illness
and the period of time during which discontinuance of electrical service will
aggravate the illness;
         (b)   Emergency, initial certification may be made by the certifying
party by telephone provided that all information required by the preceding
paragraph is verbally given to City Hall employees during normal business hours
and further provided that the written certification as provided in the
preceding paragraph is sent in written form within five days;
         (c)   Renewal of certification may be made by providing the city with
an updated certificate. The renewal shall delay discontinuance for an
additional 30 days. Failure to renew the certification shall entitle the city
to initiate discontinuance procedures; and
         (d)   In the event service has been discontinued within 14 days prior
to proper certification of illness as hereinabove provided, service shall be
restored to that residence in accordance with the preceding provisions.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall be construed so as to prevent discontinuance of
service for reasons of safety, health or cooperation with civil authorities.
   (H)   Deferred payment agreements shall only be allowed for a maximum of two
times per calendar year. The past due bill must be paid in full by the 10th of
the month, immediately following the date set by the discontinuance notice.
   (I)   The city shall designate a primary and alternate dispute contact
person. The contact person shall have the obligation, during normal business
hours, to hear customer complaints and to transmit a summary of the complaint
or dispute on a three part memo to the City Manager, who is charged with
attempting to resolve such complaint or dispute. Should any complaint or
dispute not be resolved to the satisfaction of the customer, he or she shall
have the right to review by the City Council at its regular meeting. The City
Manager shall notify the City Clerk to place said complaint on the agenda. The
alternate dispute contact person shall perform the same function as the dispute
contact person, in the contact person's absence. Where the complaint or dispute
is concerning the amount of a certain bill the city shall not discontinue
electrical service provided that the customer:
      (1)   Pays the undisputed portion of the bill in question or the amount
equal to the bill for the same service account and address for the same time
period of the prior year (normalized for weather), whichever is greater, (only
net rates shall be charged on any disputed bill paid within 14 days of
resolution of the dispute if the dispute or complaint was filed prior to the
bill becoming past due);
      (2)   Pays all bills incurred after filing of the complaint or dispute by
the due date for each such bill; and
      (3)   Cooperates with the City Manager by making him or herself available
for dispute discussions at the earliest time scheduled for resolution thereof.
      (4)   The City Manager shall have the authority to resolve disputed bills
involving $200 or less, provided that he inform the Mayor of the dispute and
his resolution thereof in writing. Disputes in excess of $200 shall require
City Council action.
      (5)   After three non-paid billing cycles, delinquent accounts shall be
submitted to a collection service.
   (J)   A reconnection charge of $75 shall be paid prior to resumption of
electrical service for reconnection on Mondays through Fridays, between the
hours 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. (excluding holidays) and between the hours of 7:
30 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on the day of disconnection. An additional charge of $75
shall be paid for reconnection after normal working hours, or on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday.
   (K)   City Hall and Electrical Department employees shall be available until
7:00 p.m. on the day of disconnection to receive proper payment and reconnect
any utility service.
(Ord. 894, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 914, passed 2-4-13; Am. Ord. 927, passed
11-18-13; Am. Ord. 1125, passed 8-5-24)
§ 52.091 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for electric service shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for electric service remains unpaid 40 days after it has been
rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of DeWitt County a statement of
lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and notice that the city claims a lien
for this amount as well as for all charges for electric service subsequent to
the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of electric service whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the
Clerk, whenever such bills remain unpaid for a period of 40 days after it has
been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid electric bills as mentioned in the
following division (D).
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid electric service charges shall
be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the city.
   (E)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters, against any property for which electric bill has remained unpaid 40
days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 989, passed 10-16-17)
§ 52.10 METERING.
   The following metering rules and regulations shall be adhered to:
   (A)   Where. All locations of customer service by the Municipal Electric
System shall be metered. Meters shall be provided and installed by the City
Electrical Department. If in the opinion of the Superintendent of the
Electrical Department, situation dictates that a service go unmetered due to
the lack of a proper meter, the customer will be billed on a flat rate, or on
estimated usage, as determined by the city. All apartments or multi-constructed
units must be provided with individual meters.
   (B)   Location. All meters shall be mounted on an exterior wall in an easily
accessible location, as designated by the Superintendent of the Electrical
Department or his appointed representative.
   (C)   Testing. Any municipal electric meter shall be taken out of service
and tested upon complaint of the customer and shall be performed upon payment
of a fee of $10. If upon test the meter is not within three percent of being
accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the $10 fee returned to the
customer. If the meter is within three percent of being correct, the fee will
not be refunded.
   (D)   Meters stopped or registering inaccurately. Customer billing will be
based on estimated usage when meter are found stopped or registering
improperly. Such estimates will be based on previous 12 months billings amended
to the current conditions when such information is available.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.11 USE OF SERVICE.
   The following rules of service shall apply:
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent of the Electrical Department may deny service
to a customer, when in his opinion the wiring or equipment is unsafe or has
objectionable characteristics. However, the city will cooperate with the
customer in order to determine the necessary remedial action of such
characteristics.
      (2)   All of the customer’s lighting equipment, motor driven equipment,
apparatus, and appliances shall have such characteristics or be equipped with
corrective devices so as to enable the city to maintain a satisfactory standard
of electric service. In the case of high motor starting current, violently
fluctuating or intermittent loads, etc., city reserves and shall have the right
to require customer to install, at the customer’s expense, transformers and
apparatus to correct the objectional conditions. (These causes may include but
are not limited to welders, hoists, elevator motors, pumps, and similar
apparatus).
   (B)   When a separate or oversized substation or transformer must be
installed specifically to eliminate the effect of the objectionable load
characteristic, and the distribution system, would otherwise have the capacity
and equipment required to supply a normal load service of the same size, or
where separate transformers and/or service are installed at customer’s request,
to supply apparatus which may be abnormally sensitive to voltage, the cost of
such substation or transformer is considered a corrective device under division
(A) of this section, and shall be provided at the customer’s expense,unless at
the discretion of the city, special circumstances require a reduction in the
cost to the customer.
   (C)   The electric rates that are applicable to customers for industrial and
commercial services are based on all such customers maintaining a power factor
of not less than 85 % lagging. In the event a customer’s power factor is less
than 85% during periods of normal operation, the city reserves the right to
require customer to install at his own expense such corrective equipment as may
be required to increase customer’s power factor to not less than 85%.
   (D)   When a customer fails to install the necessary facilities on his
premises to correct the objectionable conditions of his load or fails to
prevent such objectionable conditions from interfering with the city’s supply
of satisfactory service to other customers, the city shall have the right to
deny service to such customer until the objectionable conditions shall have
been corrected in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (E)   Where corrective equipment is installed by the city on its
distribution system to correct any objectionable conditions, the customer whose
service caused the objectionable conditions may be required to pay, at the
discretion of the city, without refund, the installed cost of such corrective
equipment shall remain the property of the city, at the city’s option. In lieu
of such payment, and subject to approval by the City, a customer may elect to
pay a monthly charge equal to 1.50% of the installed cost of such corrective
equipment, installed by the city.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.12 INCREASE IN CUSTOMER’S LOAD.
   (A)   When a customer makes application of service, he shall specify the
amount of electrical load to be connected to the Municipal Electric System so
that the city may determine the adequate service of sufficient capacity for the
operation of the equipment to be serviced.
   (B)   The customer’s connected load shall not be increased beyond the limits
hereinafter stated until the customer had given written notice to the City
Clerk and the additional load has been approved by the Superintendent of the
Electrical Department, unless the load increases total 3 HP or less, or
electrical additions total 20 amperes or less, in which case an electrical load
increase will not require notification.
   (C)   If customer does not give proper notice of increased electrical load,
the customer will be liable for any damage to the Electric System equipment
resulting from the increased load. Any person who installs additional
electrical load in excess of those loads requiring notification without
reporting to the City Clerk and obtaining approval of the Superintendent of the
Electrical Department, shall upon conviction of such failure to notify, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100. The city may elect
to refuse to furnish electrical energy to any person or corporation found
guilty of failing to report an increased electric load, that requires such
notification.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.13 RESALE OF SERVICE.
   Electrical energy provided by the Municipal Electric System, shall not be
sold to a third party or otherwise disposed of by a third party. The energy
provided by the Municipal System shall be of the sole use of its customers.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.14 RESPONSIBILITY OF CONTINUITY AND QUALITY OF SERVICE.
   The responsibility of continuity and quality of service shall be as follows:
   (A)   The Municipal Utility endeavors to furnish continuous and adequate
service; however, it cannot guarantee the service as a continuity, freedom from
voltage and frequency variations, or reversal of phase rotation, and will not
be responsible or liable for damages to customer’s apparatus resulting from
such failure or imperfection of service might damage customer’s apparatus, the
customer shall install suitable protective equipment.
   (B)   Emergencies may arise in which it is essential for the city to
immediately take lines or equipment out of service, for repairs and to prevent
damage to life or property or to prevent a more serious interruption of
service. The city Municipal Utility reserves the right to take lines or
equipment out of service under such conditions and will attempt to give
customers advanced warning of such interruptions as conditions may permit.
   (C)   The city Municipal Utility further reserves the right to take lines
and equipment temporarily out of service for short periods of maintenance and
changes in construction. Such outages will be planned at a time convenient to
customers involved, if at all practical and possible.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.15 MOTORS AND APPARATUS.
   The requirements for connecting motors and electrical apparatus shall be as
follows. Motors:
   (A) The utility reserves the right to select the type of service to be
supplied and shall be consulted before equipment is purchased or ordered by a
customer, regarding the general characteristics of service, including those
services having motors 5 H.P. and larger or where the aggregate load of smaller
motors is more than 7-½ H.P.
   (B)   In general, 7-½ H.P. and larger motors will be three-phase and motors
smaller than 7-½ H.P. may be single-phase. There may be, at the city’s sole
discretion, exceptions to this rule.
      (1)   In outlying and residential areas where three-phase energy is not
readily available, larger single phase motors may be permitted, but only with
prior approval of the Superintendent of the Electrical Department.
      (2)   Where the customer is already using three phase energy, motors
small than 7-½ H.P. may be added to the three phase service, upon notification
to the city.
      (3)   Three phase service is not normally available for residential
customers and is considered non-standard service.
   (C)   Motors and motorized equipment will generally be approved for use on
the Municipal System only if the Total Locked Rotor current does not exceed an
acceptable level, as determined by the Superintendent of the Electrical
Department.
   (D)   If starting currents are objectionable and will cause interference on
the Municipal System in the judgment of the Superintendent of the Electrical
Department reduced voltage starting or such other methods as the Superintendent
of the Electrical Department determines feasible, will be required to be
furnished by the Customer.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.16 (RESERVED)
§ 52.17 RELOCATION OF SERVICE.
   When there is a change in customer’s operation or construction which in the
judgement of the Municipal Electric Utility of the city, makes the relocation
or improvement of the facilities necessary, or if the relocation is requested
by the customer, the Municipal Electric Utility will move or improve, or caused
to be moved or improved, such facilities at the customers expense to a
location, acceptable to the Superintendent of the Electric Utility.
(Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
§ 52.18 CONSTRUCTION OF SERVICES.
   The construction for services shall, in general, be in accordance with the
drawings set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter, unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent of
the Electrical Department.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 635A, passed 1-17-94)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established rates and charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the electric system of the city, based upon the amount of
electricity consumed and for facilities as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 532, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 654, passed 9-
5-95)
§ 52.31 RESIDENTIAL RATE R1.
   (A)   Availability. Any customer located in territory served by utility may
take service under this rate subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Residential customers in a single family dwelling or single family
unit located in an apartment building or general farm purposes;
      (2)   That the energy delivered is not resold or redistributed; and
      (3)   That the customer does not have any electric generating equipment
used to produce all or a portion of customer's electrical load requirements on
a regular basis.
   (B)   Conditions of service.
      (1)   Service will be delivered to customer at no more than one of the
following standard delivery voltages:
      Single phase service - 3 wire 120/240 volts
      (2)   Utility will provide and maintain all facilities necessary to
deliver one standard delivery voltage at one specified location to customer.
Customer shall provide all necessary facilities for utilization of service at
the specified delivery voltage and for the receipt at a single point of
delivery.
      (3)   Customer will maintain its electric service entrance facilities in
good repair and in full compliance with the requirements of all local, state,
and national codes and standards including all applicable terms and conditions
of the National Electric Code ("NEC") and the National Electric Safety Code
("NESC").
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   Facilities charge $16 per month.
      (2)   Energy charge:
 
Kilowatt-hours (kWhrs) used in any one month Charges
For all kWhrs.                               $0.13625 per kWhr..
 
      (3)   (Reserved)
      (4)   Energy cost adjustment.
         (a)   The energy charges in subdivision (C)(2) are subject to the
energy cost adjustment ("ECA"). The ECA charge shall be in addition to the
stated base rates and charges, and an additional amount shall be added to each
bill for the ECA.
         (b)   The ECA is hereby defined to be the difference in the average
cost of energy per kWhr purchased by the utility during the base period and
average cost of energy per kWhr purchased by the utility during the current
comparison period.
         (c)   The base period for this fuel adjustment clause is hereby
designated as 5-1-93 to 4-30-94 and the fuel cost per kWhr during the base
period has been computed at $.035 per kWhr.
         (d)   The current comparison period shall be defined as the month
previous to the billed usage period.
         (e)   That as soon as possible after the end of each current
comparison period, the cost of purchased energy per kWhr during said period
shall be compared and the ECA shall be computed. The ECA shall be expressed as
an amount per kWhr and the ECA shall go into effect at the next billing period
after the end of the current comparison period and shall remain in effect until
a new ECA has been computed.
         (f)   The ECA rate shall be multiplied by a factor of 1.0 and by the
number of kWhrs consumed by each customer and added to each bill for electrical
service rendered.
      (5)   Penalty charge for delayed payment. A charge equal to 10% of the
bill for service shall be added to all bills not paid by the 10th day of the
month after rendition of bills. If the 10th day shall be a Sunday or holiday,
the net bill may be paid on the next day without penalty. All bills become
delinquent if not paid by the 15th of the same month. All accounts in arrears
will be charged at a rate of 1.5% per month, on the outstanding balance, on the
15th of the month.
      (6)   Tax adjustment. Any tax or charge imposed or levied by any taxing
authority, including the State of Illinois State Public Utility Revenue Tax,
shall be added to the customer's net bill.
      (7)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (C)(5) of this
section.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 854, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 889, passed 8-
15-11; Am. Ord. 906, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 12-7-20; Am. Ord.
1125, passed 8-5-24)
§ 52.32 COMMERCIAL RATE C1.
   (A)   Availability. Any customer located in territory served by utility may
take service under this rate subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Customer is non-residential;
      (2)   That the energy delivered is not resold or redistributed; and
      (3)   That the customer does not have any electric generating equipment
used to produce all or a portion of customer's electrical load requirements on
a regular basis.
   (B)   Conditions of service.
      (1)   Service will be delivered to customer at no more than one of the
following standard delivery voltages:
         (a)   Single phase service- 3 wire 120/240 volts;
         (b)   Three phase service- 4 wire 120/208 volts, grounded WYE;
         (c)   Three phase service- 4 wire 277/480 volts, grounded WYE.
      (2)   Utility will provide and maintain all facilities necessary to
deliver one standard delivery voltage at one specified location to customer.
Customer shall provide all necessary facilities for utilization of service at
the specified delivery voltage and for the receipt at a single point of
delivery.
      (3)   Customer will maintain its electric service entrance facilities in
good repair and in full compliance with the requirements of all local, state,
and national codes and standards including all applicable terms and conditions
of the National Electric Code ("NEC") and the National Electric Safety Code
("NESC").
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   Facilities charge $28.75 per month.
      (2)   Energy charge:
 
Kilowatt-hours (kWhrs) used in any one month Charges
First 800                                    $0.1423 per kWhr.
Over 800                                     $0.1108 per kWhr.
 
      (3)   Energy cost adjustment. The energy charges in subdivision (C)(2)
are subject to the ECA outlined in Section 3.c. of the Residential Rate RI.
      (4)   Penalty charge for delayed payment. A charge equal to 10% of the
bill for service shall be added to all bills not paid by the 10th day of the
month after rendition of bills. If the 10th day shall be a Sunday or holiday,
the net bill may be paid on the next day without penalty. All bills become
delinquent if not paid by the 15th of the same month. All accounts in arrears
will be charged at a rate of 1.5% per month, on the outstanding balance, on the
15th of the month.
      (5)   Tax adjustment. Any tax or charge imposed or levied by any taxing
authority including the State of Illinois State Public Utility Revenue Tax
shall be added to the customers net bill.
      (6)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (C)(4) of this
section.
(Ord. 532, passed 4-6-87; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 654, passed 9-
5-95; Am. Ord. 854, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 889, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 906,
passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. 910, passed 12-3-12; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 12-7-20;
Am. Ord. 1125, passed 8-5-24)
§ 52.33 COMMERCIAL RATE C1-D.
   (A)   Availability. Any customer located in territory served by utility may
take service under this rate subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Customer is non-residential;
      (2)   Customer's monthly demand, as determined by the utility, is more
than 20 kW;
      (3)   That the energy delivered is not resold or redistributed; and
      (4)   That the customer does not have any electric generating equipment
used to produce all or a portion of customer's electrical load requirements on
a regular basis.
   (B)   Conditions of service.
      (1)   Services will be delivered to customer at no more than one of the
following standard delivery voltages:
         (a)   Secondary service.
               Single phase service:
               -   3 wire 120/240 volts
               -   3 wire 120/208 volts (Network)
               Three phase service:
               -   4 wire 120/208 volts, grounded WYE
               -   4 wire 277 / 480 volts, grounded WYE
         (b)   Primary service. 2,400/4,160 or 7,200/12,470 volts, 4-wire
grounded WYE connected, and as available at customer's location.
         (c)   Other standard voltage will be provided by utility, as
available, under the terms of Utility's Rules Regulations and Conditions
applying to electric service.
      (2)   Utility will provide and maintain all facilities necessary to
deliver one standard delivery voltage at one specified location to customer.
Customer shall provide all necessary facilities for utilization of service at
the specified delivery voltage and for the receipt at a single point of
delivery.
      (3)   Service shall be metered for both energy (kWhr) usage and demand
(kW) usage. Demand integration shall be over 15 minute period.
      (4)   Customer shall be responsible for maintaining power factor at or
above 85% lagging. If customer's power factor falls below 85% lagging, utility
will provide written notice to customer of requirement to improve power factor
above threshold level of 85% lagging. If customer fails to correct power factor
within 90-days of such notice to a level acceptable to utility, utility
reserves the right to apply power factor correction facilities outside of the
customer's facilities at the cost of the customer. In lieu of adding power
factor correction facilities, utility reserves the right to apply a monthly
power factor penalty to customer. Such a monthly power factor penalty shall be
calculated by dividing the actual monthly demand established by the customer
(in kW) by the measured (less than 85%) monthly power factor (in per unit). The
utility will apply the applicable monthly demand charge to the calculated
monthly demand as a penalty for a monthly power factor below 85%.
      (5)   Customer will maintain its electric service entrance facilities in
good repair and in full compliance with the requirements of all local, state,
and national codes and standards including all applicable terms and conditions
of the National Electric Code ("NEC") and the National Electric Safety Code
("NESC").
   (C)   Rates:
      (1)   Facilities charge $33.75 per month.
      (2)   Energy charges:
 
Kilowatt-hours (kWhrs) used in any one month Charges
For 250 X kW dem.                            $0.1201 per kWhr.
Over 250 X kW dem                            $0.0716 per kWhr.
Max demand                                   $5.31 per kw..
 
         (a)   The maximum demand per month shall be the maximum demand
established in the billing month.
      (3)   (Reserved)
      (4)   Energy cost adjustment. The energy charges in subdivision (C)(2)
are subject to the ECA outlined in §
52.31(C)(3).
      (5)   Penalty charge for delayed payment. A charge equal to 10% of the
bill for service shall be added to all bills not paid by the 10th day of the
month after rendition of bills. If the 10th day shall be a Sunday or holiday,
the net bill may be paid on the next day without penalty. All bills become
delinquent if not paid by the 15th of the same month. All accounts in arrears
will be charged at a rate of 1.5% per month, on the outstanding balance, on the
15th of the month.
      (6)   Tax adjustment. Any tax or charge imposed or levied by any taxing
authority including the State of Illinois State Public Utility Revenue Tax
shall be added to the customer's net bill.
      (7)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (C)(5) of this
section.
      (8)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (C)(6) of this
section.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 854, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 889, passed 8-
15-11; Am. Ord. 906, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 12-7-20; Am. Ord.
1125, passed 8-5-24)
§ 52.34 (RESERVED)
§ 52.35 MUNICIPAL PURPOSE RATE M1.
   Rates.
   (A)   Facilities charge $27.50 per month.
   (B)   Energy charge. For energy and maintenance service for municipal
purposes, the city shall be billed monthly a charge computed at the rate of
$0.115 per kWhr.
   (C)   Energy cost adjustment. The energy charges in division (B) are subject
to the ECA, as outlined in §
52.31(C)(3).
   (D)   Tax adjustment. Any tax or charge imposed or levied by any taxing
authority including the State of Illinois State Public Utility Revenue Tax
shall be added to the customer’s net bill.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 854, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord.906, passed 9-
18-12 )
§ 52.36 MUNICIPAL STREETLIGHTING RATE M1LT.
   Rates.
   (A)   Facilities charge $100 per month.
   (B)   Energy charge. For energy and maintenance service for municipal
streetlighting purposes, the city shall be billed monthly a charge computed at
the rate of $0.115 per kWhr.
(Ord. 906, passed 9-18-12)
§ 52.37 PRIVATE OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Availability. Any customer located in territory served by utility for
outdoor lighting service notwithstanding availability provisions in any other
rate that all requirements be supplied thereunder.
   (B)   Service to be furnished. The utility will furnish and operate the
necessary facilities to supply service for outdoor lighting from dusk to dawn
for the number of lighting units ordered by the customer, subject to the
limitations set forth below.
   (C)   Charges.
 
Standard lighting unit Initial lumens Charges
LED 42 watt                          $102.50
High Pressure Sodium
100 Watt               9,500          $102.50
250 Watt               30,000         $192.98
400 Watt               50,000         $226.35
 
      (1)   If a transformer is required exclusively to serve such load, the
customer shall pay for the installation of the transformer.
      (2)   Penalty charge for delayed payment. A charge equal to 10% of the
bill for service shall be added to all bills not paid by the 10th day of the
month after rendition of bills. If the 10th day shall be a Sunday or holiday,
the net bill may be paid on the next day without penalty. All bills become
delinquent if not paid by the 15th of the same month. All accounts in arrears
will be charged at a rate of 1.5% per month, on the outstanding balance, on the
15th of the month.
      (3)   Tax adjustment. Any tax or charge imposed or levied by any taxing
authority, including the State of Illinois State Public Utility Revenue Tax,
shall be added to the customer's net bill.
      (4)   Insufficient funds fee. All payments made by check for bills paid
under this chapter and returned for insufficient funds will be charged $35 per
check. This fee will be added to the customer's account and be included as due
and payable subject to penalties as set forth in division (C)(2) of this
section.
   (D)   Ownership and maintenance of facilities. The utility shall own and be
responsible for the maintenance of utility facilities installed to render the
service ordered by the customer, but the utility shall not be required to
remove obstructions or trim trees that may interfere with proper distribution
of light from lighting units. The customer will be responsible for the
following:
      (1)   The removal of any obstruction to the installation of facilities.
      (2)   Provide any permits or easements required for their installation
and maintenance.
      (3)   Provide for access to them by utility trucks. If a customer desires
installation of a lighting unit on a customer owned pole, such pole must meet
utility standards at the time of installation and as long as the lighting unit
remains in service.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 906, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. 1057, passed
12-7-20; Am. Ord. 1125, passed 8-5-24)
§ 52.38 PRIMARY METERING DISCOUNT.
   (A)   Availability. The city, in its sole discretion, may grant a primary
metering discount to school district customers and to other governmental agency
customers, which exclusively bear the cost of all of the electrical facilities
installed after the proposed primary metering installation.
   (B)   If granted primary metering discount by the city, a 2% discount will
be applied to all kilowatt hours (kWHrs) of energy and kilowatts (kWs) of
demand usage measured by the primary metered facility.
   (C)   City charges and billings will be based on the application of the
appropriate rate class on the reduced kWHrs of energy and kWs of demand usage.
   (D)   The primary metering discount applies only to energy and demand
measured through the primary metered facilities and shall not apply to other
energy and demand usage that is not primary metered.
   (E)   To qualify for the primary metering discount, eligible school
districts and governmental agencies’ facilities installed after the primary
metering equipment, must be installed in such a way as to conform to the
standards established by the city.
   (F)   The city assumes no responsibility for the safety of adequacy of
installations.
(Ord. 734, passed 6-19-00)
§ 52.39 NET METERING.
   (A)   The city shall make available, upon request, net metering service to
any customer taking service from the city and who meets the requirements set
forth in this policy. For purposes of this policy, NET METERING means service
to an electric customer under which electric energy generated by that electric
customer from an eligible on-site generating facility owned by that customer
and, under some circumstances, delivered to the local distribution facilities,
may be used to offset electric energy provided by the city to the electric
customer as provided for in this policy. For multi-unit residential and
commercial buildings, if all units are on the same account it qualifies as a
single customer for purposes of this policy. If individual units are separately
metered and individual tenants have individual accounts, then the term CUSTOMER
only refers to the building owner and any usage by the owner. The city cannot
be responsible to allocate renewable generation facilities to individual
accounts in a multi-unit residential or commercial building. Before the project
starts construction, the customer must complete the attached application form
and receive approval from the City Manager. Before the project in service date,
the contractor must complete and deliver the attached certification of
completion to the City Manager.
   (B)   For purposes of this policy, an eligible on-site generating facility
shall be defined as a renewable generating facility such as a photovoltaic
facility and small wind turbines. Other forms of renewable generation shall be
considered on a case-by-case basis. In all cases, facilities interconnected
must be deemed by the city to be renewable to qualify for this policy.
   (C)   The electric generating facility must also abide by the city's
interconnection standards currently in place.
   (D)   Subject to the limitations set forth herein, the city shall make net
metering service available upon request to any city residential electric
customer with a qualifying generating facility of 10 kW capacity or less. For
commercial and industrial accounts, the limit will be 20 kW.
   (E)   Any generating facility greater than the limits in division (D), but
less than 1 MW shall be considered on a case by case basis. The decision with
respect to such facilities shall be made by the City Manager.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions in division (E), the city reserves the
authority to limit the size of a customer net metered installation to a size
such that the electrical output will not, as a matter of routine operation,
exceed the electric load of the structure on which it is installed.
   (G)   Total net metered capacity interconnected under this policy for the
city's system shall not exceed 2% of the system's peak as it existed in the
prior calendar year. In the event that the system peak is reduced such that the
existing net capacity exceeds the 2% level, those existing net metered
customers shall be allowed to continue under this policy. However, no new
interconnections will be allowed until such time as the system peak grows such
that net metered capacity is again no greater than 2% of the system's peak.
   (H)   The city shall install a bi-directional meter to measure both the
energy used by the customer from the city and the energy provided by the
customer to the city. Energy used by the customer from the city, as reflected
in the meter reading, shall be billed at the appropriate utility full retail
rate. For any energy generated by the customer and provided to the city for a
given billing period, as reflected in the meter reading, a credit shall be
applied to the customer's bill based upon the city's avoided cost. Avoided cost
shall be defined as the average cost in cents/KWh billed to the city by its
power supplier for the previous month. In the event of termination of an
account qualifying for net metering under this policy, any outstanding credits
are surrendered. Under no circumstances shall there be payments or credit
transfers for excess energy generated by the customer. Each customer's account
shall be trued up monthly and adjustments, either credit or debit, will be made
to the customer's account interest free.
   (I)   Any costs the city incurs associated with the net metering program,
including but not limited to changes in metering (to include installation of a
bi-directional meter), other physical facilities or billing-related costs,
shall be born by the participants in the net metering program provided however
that such costs shall be capped at $1,000 to each qualifying customer
interconnecting facilities of 10 kW or less. For those facilities greater than
10 kW that are deemed to qualify under this policy, all costs associated with
the program shall be born by the participant.
   (J)   In addition to the cost referenced in division (I), the city shall
charge a distribution system utilization fee of ($0.00 ) to ensure all
customers pay a share of the costs of maintenance and improvements to the
distribution system. This fee is exclusive to customers who receive net
metering services under this policy and represents the nonbypassable costs
associated with maintaining the distribution system that backs up net metered
generation.
   (K)   The city shall develop such rules, regulations and documents as needed
to implement this policy. The city reserves the right to interpret, amend or
rescind this policy. Any modification of the policy shall become effective the
date of its issuance unless otherwise noted. Nothing herein is intended to or
should be construed as a contractual offer or creating any contractual
obligation on the part of the city.
(Ord. 1008, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 1059, passed 2-2-21; Am. Ord. 1125, passed
8-5-24)
APPENDIX A: CONSTRUCTION OF SERVICES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/828d742ef98ea6d10b87a8525b343e4fb06ec26f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1714.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/828d742ef98ea6d10b87a8525b343e4fb06ec26f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1716.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/828d742ef98ea6d10b87a8525b343e4fb06ec26f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1718.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/828d742ef98ea6d10b87a8525b343e4fb06ec26f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1720.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Service required
   
53.03   Container requirements
   
53.04   Municipal and landscape waste in front yard or right-of-way
   
53.05   Composting–Maximum size and location standards
   
53.06   Placement for collection
   
53.07   Hazardous waste
   
53.08   Disposal
   
53.09   Burning prohibited; exceptions
   
53.10   License required
   
53.11   License
   
53.12   Application
   
53.13   Fees; expiration
   
53.14   Vehicles transporting waste
   
53.15   Minimum services
   
53.16   Rates
   
53.17   Additional services
   
53.18   Hours
   
53.19   License revocation
   
53.20   Administrative procedure
   53.21   Dumpster and portable storage devices in public rights-of-way or
crossing public rights-of way.
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the words, terms, phrases and their derivatives set forth in this
section below shall have the meanings as follows:
   CITY HAULING SERVICE. The provision of any service contracted by the city to
collect residential waste or landscape waste from any residential dwelling
containing not more than two dwelling units.
   COMMERCIAL HAULING SERVICE. The provision of any service to collect and
transport municipal waste or landscape waste from any dwelling, multifamily
dwelling or any commercial or industrial premises.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any solid waste containing a variety of
materials resulting from the construction, demolition, remodeling or renovation
of residential, commercial or industrial structures. CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION
DEBRIS also includes cement, concrete, asphalt or masonry debris resulting
primarily from street, sidewalk, bridge, sewer and water construction, repair
or replacement, which is defined as “clean fill” by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   CURBSIDE. That portion of the right-of-way adjacent to and within five feet
of the roadway, including any alley.
   DIRECTOR. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or a suite of two or more rooms in a residential
dwelling designed for and used for living and sleeping purposes, containing its
own kitchen and bathroom facilities, and having its own independent entry/
access from the exterior of such residential dwelling or from a common interior
hallway.
   FRONT YARD. The open space of any yard on any lot within the city extending
the entire width of any such lot from the line of the right-of-way to the
nearest point of any building or structure located on such lot.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   LANDSCAPE COMPANY. Any person that provides, for any property other than its
own, maintenance or removal of lawns, shrubbery, trees or any ornamental plant,
and transports only landscape waste produced directly as a result of such
landscape care activities.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any accumulation of grass, shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care and maintenance
of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees; provided, however, that landscape waste
that has been chipped, shredded, composted or otherwise processed so as to be
converted from raw landscape waste shall not be considered to be LANDSCAPE
WASTE for the purposes of this chapter.
   MULTIFAMILY DWELLING. Any residential dwelling containing more than two
dwelling units.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, rubbishy debris, general household
waste, or construction or demolition debris, but does not include any landscape
waste or any material or waste classified as hazardous, toxic, flammable or
otherwise dangerous to the environment under any federal, state or local law.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, rubbish, debris, general household
waste, but does not include any construction or demolition debris or landscape
waste or any material or waste classified as hazardous, toxic, flammable or
otherwise dangerous to the environment under any federal, state or local law.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of any land
dedicated for street, alley or sidewalk purposes or otherwise open to the use
of the public for the purposes of passage or vehicular travel within the city.
   ROADWAY. That portion of the right-of-way improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   WASTE HAULER. Any person who charges a fee for collecting municipal waste or
landscape waste.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18)
§ 53.02 SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who as owner, agent, lessee, occupant or other person in
control of any dwelling unit other than a multifamily dwelling shall be
required to have city hauling service.
   (B)   Any person who as owner, agent, lessee, occupant or other person in
control of any multifamily dwelling or of any commercial or industrial premises
within the city shall have any accumulation of municipal waste on any such
property collected and disposed of at least once every seven calendar days by a
waste hauler who has a valid waste hauler license as required by this chapter.
   (C)   The occupancy of any dwelling unit, multifamily dwelling or the
operation of any commercial or industrial activity by any person within the
city shall be prima facie evidence that municipal waste is being produced and
accumulated within any such dwelling unit, multifamily dwelling or on any such
commercial or industrial premises.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All municipal waste shall be placed for collection in approved
containers as described in this section. No person who as owner, agent, lessee,
occupant or other person in control of any dwelling unit or of any commercial
or industrial premises shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of municipal
waste on any such property except:
      (1)   For city hauling service of residential waste. All residential
waste for collection, other than recyclable materials which a customer desires
to separate for recycling, landscape waste, or construction waste, shall be
placed in such container as may be supplied from time to time by the provider
of such city hauling service;
      (2)   For commercial hauling service of municipal waste. A watertight
container or containers which meet or exceed the requirements of being
constructed of a rigid material with handles, a tight-fitting lid and
sufficient capacity to contain the accumulation of municipal waste until the
next date of collection; or a watertight dumpster or similar trash receptacle
which meets or exceeds the requirements of being constructed of a rigid
material with a lid and sufficient capacity to contain the accumulation of
municipal waste until the next date of collection.
   (B)   Any unlawful accumulation of municipal waste in violation of the
provisions of this section is declared to be a public nuisance and may be
enforced in accordance with provisions of this code applicable to public
nuisances.
   (C)   Recyclable material. All recyclable materials separated from
residential waste must be placed in recycling totes provided free of charge to
customers paying monthly fees for waste totes provided by licensed haulers.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 MUNICIPAL AND LANDSCAPE WASTE IN FRONT YARD OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including for this purpose, any owner,
agent, lessee, occupant or other person in control of any dwelling unit or of
any commercial or industrial premises, to cause, permit or allow any municipal
waste or any landscape waste to be placed, deposited or stored in any front
yard or in any right-of-way within the city, except as may otherwise be allowed
or authorized in connection with the following:
   (A)   Residential waste generated from any dwelling unit other than a
multifamily dwelling may be temporarily placed, deposited and stored in any
front yard or in any right-of-way (excluding the roadway and sidewalk portions
thereof) immediately adjacent to the dwelling unit where such residential waste
is generated for the purposes of curbside collection by the provider of city
hauling service during the 40-hour period commencing at 6:00 p.m. on the day
preceding and ending at 10:00 a.m. on the day following the day or days
designated by such provider of city hauling service for curbside collection;
provided such residential waste is in a container or containers meeting the
requirements of this chapter. If a city-observed holiday should occur on any
one of such designated days, the hours for such curbside collection shall be
permitted during the same 40-hour period preceding and following the day
immediately after any such holiday.
   (B)   Landscape waste may be temporarily placed, deposited or stored in a
front yard or in any right-of-way (excluding the roadway and sidewalk portions
thereof) immediately adjacent to the dwelling unit or the commercial or
industrial premises where such landscape waste is generated for the purposes of
curbside collection by:
      (1)   The city during any period designated for such purposes by the
Mayor and City Council of the city; or
      (2)   A licensed waste hauler for a maximum period of seven consecutive
calendar days; provided that any such landscape waste is placed in their own
containers or biodegradable bags.
   (C)   Leaves may be placed, deposited or stored within the right-of-way in a
neat and careful manner and piled near, but not upon, any portion of the
roadway or of any sidewalk for curbside collection by the city during any
period designated for such purpose by the Mayor and City Council of the city;
provided, however, that any leaves so placed,
deposited or stored shall be piled no more than 18 inches in height and no
other material of any kind shall be deposited or placed in or near such leaves.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 COMPOSTING—MAXIMUM SIZE AND LOCATION STANDARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including for this purpose, any owner,
agent, lessee, occupant or other person in control of any dwelling unit or of
any commercial or industrial premises to cause, permit or allow a compost cell
or pile to be maintained within the city in violation of the following
standards:
   (A)   The maximum size of any such compost cell or pile shall not exceed 125
cubic feet in volume and five feet in height. Any such compost cell or pile
shall also be restrained on three sides to minimize blowing material, and any
such side walls should allow aeration. Any such compost cell or pile shall
further not:
      (1)   Be located in a floodway;
      (2)   Be setback less than three feet from any property line, unless such
compost cell or pile is maintained jointly by two or more abutting property
owners;
      (3)   Be closer than 15 feet to any dwelling unit on abutting property;
      (4)   Be located in any front yard; and
      (5)   Be maintained so that runoff or leachate created as a result of any
such compost cell or pile runs onto abutting property.
   (B)   Only the following organic materials shall be allowed in any such
compost cell or pile: dirt, sod, landscape waste in which any woody materials
and garden wastes have been reduced in size to one-half inch in diameter and 12
inches long, and cooked and uncooked fruits and vegetables; provided, however,
that small amounts of wood ash or fertilizer may be added to provide nutrients.
   (C)   The materials to be excluded from a compost cell or pile shall
include, but are not limited to: construction or demolition debris, metal
items, preservative-treated wood products, petroleum products (gasoline,
crankcase oil, paints or solvents), pesticides or herbicides (except that which
is already conveyed as part of the organic materials described in division (B)
above), fish or animal feces, fish or animal carcasses, cooked meat scraps,
human feces, paper, and plastic or cardboard items normally considered solid
waste.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   Unless other arrangements for the location of waste pickup are made between
the customer and the hauler, all residential waste, placed in approved
containers shall be placed at the curb by the customer for collection. Approved
containers may be stored at the curb until collected, but no longer than 48
hours at a time. Approved containers may not be placed on top of water meters
and may not interfere with mail delivery, snow removal and vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No hazardous waste shall be placed for collection with residential waste. No
hazardous waste shall be collected within the city without the hauler thereof
being licensed to perform the hauling by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All residential waste shall be collected, removed, and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations, All recyclable material collected by any hauler shall be processed
and marketed as recyclable material. Only that portion of the recyclable
material that is not processable or marketable due to the quality of the
recyclable material, for example, wet newspaper, may be landfilled. Upon
request of the city, proof of recycling must be provided to the city by the
waste hauler.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to bury municipal waste at any time within the
city limits.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 BURNING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage, or material such as rubber,
tires, leather, tar paper, old batteries or any material which emit an
offensive odor when burned, outside of any building at any time in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to burn papers, excelsior, or other material
which may be blown about by the wind anywhere in the city unless the same is
burned in a stove, fireplace, or furnace or in an incinerator sufficiently fine
to prevent the escape of ignited particles.
   (C)   Recreational campfires are permitted on property only under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The fire shall be contained in a metal container not exceeding 20
square feet in plane surface area and not elevated more than ten inches above
the grade level or on cleared earth in a pit enclosed on the sides by masonry
or rock materials and not exceeding 20 square feet in area.
      (2)   All trees, fences, decks and other structures shall be at least ten
feet from the fire enclosure or pit.
      (3)   Any fuel used shall be confined to logs or branches that are
untreated or commercially available charcoal briquettes. No other fuels are
permissible except a starter fuel designed for that purpose.
      (4)   A responsible adult of at least 18 years of age shall be in
attendance at all times that the fire is burning. When adult supervision
ceases, the fire shall be extinguished with water and the coals spread out in
the enclosure.
      (5)   Campfires shall be extinguished if, in the opinion of a responding
Fire Department employee, there is danger that smoke or fire will inflict
injury upon someone or will cause damage to property.
      (6)   The owner of the property upon which the fire is burning shall have
consented to such fire.
   (D)   Outdoor cooking fires. Charcoal or small wood fires for cooking
purposes are permitted in containers designed for cooking over such fires.
These containers shall be placed so that they do not cause fire or smoke damage
to property or injury to any person.
   (E)   Enforcement. It shall be the responsibility of the Police Chief or his
or her designee to enforce this section of the code.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or company shall engage in the business
of collecting and/or hauling municipal waste or recyclable material over and
upon the streets of the city unless the person, firm, corporation, or company
shall be licensed therefor by the city.
   (B)   Each licensee, by applying for and receiving a license from the city,
shall be deemed to have entered into an indemnity agreement with the city
whereby the licensee agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the city harmless
from all costs, expenses and liabilities, including attorneys’ fees and court
costs, resulting from or arising out of any claim, demand, or cause of action
for damage to persons or property caused, or allegedly caused, by licensee or
licensee’s employees in the city.
   (C)   As a condition to each license, the licensed hauler must maintain
current, effective, and binding certificates of insurance on file with the City
Clerk throughout the term of the license, naming the city as an additional
insured, for the following types of insurance:
      (1)   Workers’ compensation. The licensed hauler must carry with a
company authorized under the laws of the State of Illinois a policy to protect
itself against liability under the workers’ compensation and occupational
diseases statutes of the State of Illinois;
      (2)   Motor vehicle liability insurance. The licensed hauler shall carry
in its own name a policy under a comprehensive form to insure the entire motor
vehicle liability for its operations with limits not less than:
         (a)   Three million dollars for each person and $5,000,000 for each
accident for bodily injury and death liability; and
         (b)   Two million dollars for each accident for property damage
liability;
      (3)   General liability. The licensed hauler shall carry in its own name
a commercial general liability insurance policy with the following limits of
liability:
         (a)   Three million dollars combined single limit per occurrence for
bodily injury, and property damage;
         (b)   Five million dollars per occurrence for personal injury; and
         (c)   A general aggregate limit of liability shall be twice the
required occurrence limit, and no less than $6,000,000;
      (4)   Employer’s liability. The licensed hauler shall carry in its own
name an employer’s liability policy with limits of $1 per accident.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18; Am. Ord. 1008A, passed
8-6-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 LICENSE.
   (A)   No applicant shall be granted a license unless the applicant shall
have the proper and necessary vehicles, machinery and other equipment for
properly taking care of and disposing of municipal waste in conformity with
this chapter and the health regulations of the state, the County of DeWitt, and
the city. No license shall be granted to any applicant who has been guilty of
any willful violation of this chapter or any other health or sanitary
regulations of the city, or is in default on any contract with the city.
   (B)   The city shall contract with one person to be the sole city hauling
service which shall have the exclusive license to collect residential waste and
landscape waste from residential dwellings other than multifamily dwellings.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for and renewal of a commercial hauling license shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Name and phone number of the business operating the vehicle(s);
      (2)   Name of the manager of the business;
      (3)   Address of business;
      (4)   Year, make and model and Illinois vehicle plate number of each
collection vehicle operated by the business;
      (5)   Type of each collection vehicle (e.g., pickup, dump truck, semi);
      (6)   Vehicle identification number of each collection vehicle;
      (7)   Weight of each collection vehicle;
      (8)   Capacity of each collection vehicle in yards;
      (9)   Type of material to be hauled by each collection vehicle (e.g.,
landscape waste, residential waste); and
      (10)   Proof of current commercial general liability, automobile
liability, and workers’ compensation insurance in the form of a certificate of
insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state
in the amounts required by the city and stated on the city’s application for
commercial hauler license.
      (11)   If the applicant is or will be collecting on a regular basis from
freestanding residential units of four or less, how and by whom recyclables
will be collected.
   (B)   The licensee shall notify the city in writing within 14 days following
a change in any information contained in the licensee’s application.
   (C)   All applications for license shall be made to the City Clerk on forms
provided by the city. Applicants must produce all necessary documents to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Proof of satisfaction of all prior years fees owed to the city.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 FEE; EXPIRATION.
   The license fee shall be $100 per year for each licensee. In addition to the
license fee, the city hauling service shall pay additional fees as contained in
the contract with the city. All other licensee holders shall pay an additional
fee to the city in an amount equal to $5 per container per year collected
within the city. The license fee is due upon application for each license, and
the additional fee is due upon the expiration of each license. The licensee
must produce all necessary business records to substantiate the required
additional fee. All licenses shall expire annually on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18)
§ 53.14 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING WASTE.
   All vehicles used in the collection and/or transportation of municipal waste
shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   They shall at all times be kept in a neat, clean and sanitary
condition, and in good running order;
   (B)   They shall be kept thoroughly cleaned so that when empty they will
give off no offensive or obnoxious odors;
   (C)   They shall not be overloaded;
   (D)   They shall have and utilize a water-tight bed or receptacle having a
closed cover and be so constructed that no portion of the waste conveyed
therein shall be scattered or left in or upon the sidewalks, streets, alleys or
public grounds of the city;
   (E)   They shall not allow any fluids being hauled to leak from the bed or
engine onto a public street or right-of-way;
   (F)   They shall not be parked on the streets of the city in any one place
for a period longer than is necessary to load the waste of the customer being
immediately served;
   (G)   They shall at all times be kept neatly painted and easily identifiable
with the licensed hauler’s name and the website required under §
53.11; and
   (H)   They shall not be driven or operated by anyone not of good moral
character.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15 MINIMUM SERVICES.
   (A)   Each licensed hauler shall collect residential waste at least once
each week and recyclable material placed for collection by the licensee’s
customers at least once every other week.
      (1)   Recyclable materials may include, but not be limited to, corrugated
cardboard, boxboard, beverage carrier stock, magazines, catalogs, newspaper and
inserts, telephone directories, paperback books, residential mixed paper, tin
and bi-metal food and beverage cans, empty aerosol cans, aluminum food and
beverage cans, foil and trays, food and beverage mixed glass containers,
plastics labeled #1 through #7, non-styrofoam.
      (2)   Recycling services shall be provided at no additional cost.
Recycling services shall not be separately priced nor shall recyclable
materials be counted towards the per container cost of services.
   (B)   If a customer chooses to separate recyclable material from the
customer’s residential waste and places the recyclable material in approved
containers, as provided for above, each licensed hauler shall collect the
recyclable material and shall not mix recyclable material with other
residential waste. However, no licensed hauler shall be required to pick up
recyclable material, unless the recyclable material is accompanied by at least
one bag of residential waste, or deposited in a recycling tote provided by a
licensed hauler for pick up on a date designated by the hauler.
   (C)   Any residential waste that would fit in an approved container, as
described in §
53.03, that is not placed in such an approved container shall not be collected
by the licensed hauler, except as provided in any written agreement between the
city and the city hauling service.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to restrict customers
and licensed haulers from increasing the level of services provided by the
hauler, including but not limited to more frequent collections, back door
collections, special collections of bulky items or landscape waste and the
like.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 RATES.
   (A)   Residential waste. Licensed haulers shall charge a customer for the
collection of residential waste on the basis of the amount of residential
waste, not separated for recycling, collected from such customer. This shall be
accomplished by the licensed hauler charging each customer a standard fee for:
      (1)   A monthly fee for each waste tote based on the size of tote
provided.
   (B)   Recyclable material. Licensed haulers shall not charge for collecting
recyclable material that has been separated and placed by customer in approved
containers, as provided for in §
53.03.
   (C)   Any items collected that will not fit in an approved container, as
described in §
53.03, shall be charged for at the discretion of the hauler, except as provided
in any written agreement between the city and the city hauling service.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-19-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 ADDITIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Each licensed hauler shall maintain an office equipped with sufficient
telephones and personnel to provide prompt, courteous and efficient service for
Farmer City residents contracted with that hauler for questions or to file
complaints by telephone or in person Monday through Friday (except holidays)
from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. Every complaint shall be given prompt, courteous
attention. In the case of alleged missed collections, the licensed hauler shall
investigate, and if such allegation is verified, shall make the collection
within 24 hours after the complaint is received. The licensed hauler shall
notify the city if any complaints received and corrective action taken.
   (B)   Each licensed hauler shall provide a point of contact to the city to
handle any issues relative to their license as well as any complaints received
by the city regarding the refuse or recycling collection services provided by
the hauler. Each licensed hauler shall also provide information for after-hours
emergencies.
   (C)   Each licensed hauler must maintain a website specifically dedicated to
the waste hauling service it provides in the city, including waste and
recycling collection schedules, information regarding the rental of waste
totes, and such other information the city reasonably deems necessary from time
to time. The licensed hauler’s email address and telephone number must be
listed on the required website.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-18-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.18 HOURS.
   All collections of residential waste shall be made between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. All collections shall be made as quietly as possible.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-18-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.19 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Unless as otherwise agreed in any contract between the city and the
city hauling service, the Director may revoke a waste hauler license for any
one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Two or more violations of this chapter within a 24-month period
prior to the current violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Two or more suspensions of such waste hauler license for any length
of time for any violations of this chapter that occurred within a 24-month
period prior to the then-current violation of this chapter; or
      (3)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in any
application for such waste hauler license or for any commercial vehicle
inspection permit required by this chapter.
   (B)   Any waste hauler whose license has been revoked may reapply for a
waste hauler license not less than six months following the effective date of
any such revocation of any such waste hauler license.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-18-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No waste hauler license shall be suspended or revoked unless an
administrative hearing open to the public is held. The licensee shall be given
written notice, at least seven days prior to such hearing, informing the
licensee of the date and time of any such hearing and the grounds for the
proposed suspension or revocation. Such written notice shall be by personal
service on the licensee, or by certified mail addressed to the licensee at the
address listed in the license application. The licensee shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appear and defend.,
   (B)   The Director may appoint a hearing officer to hold any hearing to take
evidence on whether or not to suspend or revoke a waste hauler license under
this chapter; to hold any rehearing on such matters; and to make a
recommendation as to findings of fact and any sanction to be imposed. In such
event, the City Manager shall review the evidence and recommendations of the
hearing officer and shall adopt, modify or reject any recommendations.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-18-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 DUMPSTER AND PORTABLE STORAGE DEVICES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR
CROSSING PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF WAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The primary purpose of public streets is for use by vehicular
and pedestrian traffic. Reasonable regulations of obstruction in public streets
and sidewalks is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Definitions.
      DUMPSTER. Any container used for the storage, collection, or removal of
construction debris, demolition debris or other discarded material, whether 30
or more cubic yards, but shall not include a refuse compactor or grease
container and shall also not include the refuse containers generally used for
weekly collection.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of solid wastes which, because of
its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illnesses; or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of,
or otherwise managed or which has been identified, by characteristics or
listing, as hazardous pursuant to federal laws and their implementing
regulations and State of Illinois laws and their implementing regulations.
Applicable federal laws include, but are not limited to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976
(P.L. 94-580); the Toxic Substances Control Act: the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
as amended (68 Stat. 921); and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
State laws include but are not limited to the Illinois Environmental Protection
Act.
      PORTABLE STORAGE DEVICE. Any item placed in a street that is not a motor
vehicle as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code, or a temporary dumpster,
including, but not limited to, containers commonly known as "portable storage
devices or "PODS®”.
      TEMPORARY DUMPSTER. Any dumpster used or intended as a disposal facility
for construction, renovation, or demolitions projects, special events, seasonal
use, or other purposes not permanent in nature.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any permit for any dumpster, temporary
dumpster, or portable storage device, its location and usage shall be reviewed
and approved by the Superintendent of Streets and/or Chief of Police.
   (D)   A permit for a dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage
device shall be for an initial term of not more than 30 days. Provided the
applicant is in compliance with all provisions of this article and all other
applicable city regulations, a renewal permit may be approved and issued for no
more than two additional 30-day periods upon application and payment of the
permit renewal fee as established by the City Council. Not more than one
renewal shall be issued by the city for any dumpster, temporary dumpster, or
portable storage device placed upon any city street. The dumpster, temporary
dumpster, or portable storage device shall be removed prior to the expiration
of the permit.
   (E)   The following requirements shall apply to any dumpster, temporary
dumpster, or portable storage device placed upon public streets or pedestrian
ways in the city.
      (1)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device may be
placed on roads in the city, within 40 feet of an intersection; or within any
prohibited or restricted area.
      (2)   Dumpsters, temporary dumpsters or portable storage devices shall be
placed on a paved or gravel surface if located on private property.
      (3)   Sufficient reflective tape shall be placed upon all four sides of
the dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device in such a manner
as to make it visible at night.
      (4)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device shall
be placed nearer than 15 feet to any fire hydrant within the parkway or other
area intended for fire-fighting equipment.
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of the dumpster, temporary
dumpster, or portable storage device owner/operator shall be conspicuously
placed on at least two sides of the device.
      (6)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device shall
be placed on the parkway of any street extending a distance of more than nine
feet from the curb line or edge of the parkway.
      (7)   The location of any dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable
storage device upon any public street shall not interfere with any required
clear sight distance across any intersection.
      (8)   The location of dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage
device upon any public street shall not obstruct any pedestrian way or the
travel lane of any public street.
      (9)   No dumpster. temporary dumpster, or portable storage device shall
be loaded in such a manner as to cause its contents to spill onto any street,
sidewalk, or other area intended for pedestrian travel.
      (10)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device shall
contain any hazardous waste unless pursuant to a permit for such waste issued
by the appropriate governmental entity.
      (11)   No materials contained in a dumpster, temporary dumpster, or
portable storage device shall emit any noxious or offensive odor or otherwise
create a hazard or risk to public health.
      (12)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster, or portable storage device shall
be placed in such a manner as to interfere with the operation or maintenance of
any public utility.
   (F)   The permit shall be conspicuously placed in a location that permits it
to be identified from a public street.
   (G)   The placement of any dumpster shall be in accordance with all
requirements of the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   (H)   If any damage or injury to the parkway, curb, sidewalk shall be caused
or done by the use of occupancy of any street or road, the party to whom such
permit shall have been issued shall be responsible and liable for the same and
shall restore the parkway, curb and/or sidewalk to its original condition. If
the permittee refuses to properly restore the parkway, curb and/or sidewalk to
its original condition, the city may do so and collect the cost of the same
from the permittee.
   (I)   The fee for a permit shall be as fixed by the Council from time to
time in the fee schedule.
(Ord. 2024-1117, passed 4-15-24) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, associate, corporation or company who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a minimum of $75 up to $750 for
each offense. Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-18-68; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-15-18)
CHAPTER 54: UTILITY SERVICES, BILLINGS
Section
   
54.01   Responsibility for costs of services
   
54.02   Exceptions
§ 54.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS OP SERVICES.
   As a general rule applicable to all utility services provided by the city,
including water, sewer and electricity, the city will look to the owner of the
property services to be responsible for costs of services, as these may be
amended from time to time by rate ordinances approved by the Mayor and City
Council.
(Ord. 583, passed 9-3-91)
§ 54.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions to §
54.01 are for renters or other categories of individuals making use of the
property owned by others (referred to below generally as "renters"):
      (1)   The city will switch responsibility for; service from the owner to
the renter only on the posting of the required deposit by the renter with the
request for service. The billing shall then be made to the renter until such
time as renter requests a final billing and termination of service. At that
point, the billing responsibility for any continued service reverts back to the
property owner.
      (2)   Should the renter leave the property (and the city) without having
paid all outstanding utility bills, the city will make every possible effort to
collect those outstanding charges from that renter including:
         (a)   Denial of further utility service until the bills axe paid;
         (b)   Exhaustive billing at subsequent addresses; and
         (c)   Use of collection procedures and agencies.
   (B)   Failing collection from these efforts, the city shall hold the
property owner responsible for all outstanding utility bills.
(Ord. 583, passed 9-3-91)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND GOLF CARTS
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
79.   SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-driven
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
   
70.42   Location of city traffic-control signs
   
70.43   Excessive engine braking noise
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry
weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more non-highway tires,
designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and handlebars or steering
wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1- 101.8)
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of city departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under Section 5-1127 of the Counties Code; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Juvenile
Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency; vehicles of the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more
and those identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and
vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency as
defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 16 inches in
diameter. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
    COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE (CDL). A license issued by a state or other
jurisdiction, in accordance with the standards contained in 49 C.F.R. Part 383,
to an individual which authorizes the individual to operate a class of a
commercial motor vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.6)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprises,
for-hire or not-for-hire, but not including, a commuter van, an arrangement
when being used for that purpose, or a recreational vehicle not being used
commercially. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-301)
(ILCS CH. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing two non-tandem
wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per
hour or less. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property. (ILCS Ch. 625, § 1-
126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit:
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, and other local board or body having
authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and laws of
this state and each road district highway commissioner having that authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles, on
converging roadways to permit entry into the junction thereof, wherein the
driver of each vehicle involved is adjust his vehicular speed and lateral
position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20 mph
but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces two
brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For the
section, motor vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying not more than ten persons.
      (2)   Second division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or
cargo, and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and
used as motor vehicles of the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocyle or tractor. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for and used by a
handicapped excess of eight m.p.h. on level ground. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
148.3)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for- hire. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the condition stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or leasee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates or riding a
skateboard, including a person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his
principal business, or where he makes up and approves his payroll, maintains a
central file of records, and maintains his principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed, or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control his business affairs shall
be considered as the principal place of business. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS or SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed on registration year. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1- 171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government. (ILCS Ch. 625, § 1- 171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 500 feet apart. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-174)
   REVERSIBLE LANE. A lane of a two or more laned roadway upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, city corporation, or common
carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers
when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division.
         (c)   A multifunction school-activity bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois state police. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, city, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1- 205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, carry upon, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar,
towline or auxiliary axle, or carried upon to render assistance to disabled
vehicles, except for any truck tractor temporarily converted to a tow truck by
means of a portable wrecker unit attached to the fifth wheel of the truck
tractor and used only by the owner to tow a disabled vehicle also owned by him
or her and never used for hire. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a junk vehicle, as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section, vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: Those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo
and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as
motor vehicles of the second division. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT
OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman, person authorized by a local
authority to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic. Any person convicted of
violating this section is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $150.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions;
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses
to obey that direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue light. However,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic- control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic- control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching
a pedestrian hybrid beacon.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk
that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic
controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and local
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (D)(2)
above. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the
right of way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (D)(2) above, the
driver of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to
change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120
seconds because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to
detect the arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle's size or
weight, shall have the right to proceed, after yielding the right of way to
oncoming traffic facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign as required by §
70.41.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306(a) - (d)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person may place or maintain, nor may any public authority permit,
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   (C)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is empowered
to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this city which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311)
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage,
injure, or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or
for the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalty which may
be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The City Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the city, is authorized to indicate the ownership
of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than 3/8 inch, or more
than 3/4 inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent
means. Except for employees of the City Street Department, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or
work on the highway approved by the city, it is unlawful for any person to
possess a sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersection roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 LOCATION OF CITY TRAFFIC- CONTROL SIGNS.
   The locations of authorized traffic-control signs in the city are set forth
in Chapters
77 and
78 of this title.
§ 70.43 EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE.
   (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term COMPRESSION
RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE shall mean any device installed or operating as a part of
a diesel engine equipped vehicle which reduces the speed of said vehicle by
altering the air flow within the engine causing the emission of compressed air
from the exhaust of said vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibition use. The use of compression release engine brakes to brake
or decelerate by any vehicle so equipped traveling through the corporate limits
of Farmer City is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   Affirmative defense. It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation
of this section that compression release engine brakes were or are used in
circumstances where such use was necessary to avoid personal injury or
accident.
   (D)   Signs posted. The erection of signs conforming to the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices shall be erected and placed under guidance of
the Illinois Department of Transportation at all roadway entrances to the city.
The signs shall state “Excessive Engine Braking Noise Prohibited”.
(Ord. 869, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Traffic violations. Every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this traffic code for which another penalty is not provided shall,
for a first or second conviction thereof, be guilty of a petty offense and, for
a third or subsequent conviction within one year after the first conviction, be
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-104)
   (B)   Parking violations. Any person accused of a violation of any provision
of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or
restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there parked, or parking in a
metered area without putting a coin in the meter to cover the required time,
may settle and compromise the claim against him for such illegal parking by
paying the city $25 for each such offense if paid within five days. Such
payment may be made at the police station, a receipt shall be issued for all
money so received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the City
Clerk to be credited to the General Fund. The members of the Police Department
are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged
offense involved unless the judgment is not satisfied within the allotted five
days. This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or Fire Department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an
emergency entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person
charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street
or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street
to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle
illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police Department. Such
instances will be handled in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302,
officers authorized to remove vehicles.
   (C)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
70.43, the court shall impose upon the violator a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $500 per offense.
(Am. Ord. 858, passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 869, passed 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools and while traveling through
highway construction or maintenance zones
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066    Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Depositing material on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this state at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, URBAN DISTRICT does not include any
interstate highway as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-133.1 which includes
all highways under the jurisdiction of the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway of this state at a
speed which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit
established by divisions (D) and (E) below, by §
71.002 or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (E)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit outside an urban district for any vehicle is:
      (1)   Sixty-five miles per hour for all or part of highways that are
designated by the Department, have at least four lanes of traffic, and have a
separation between the roadways moving in opposite directions; and
      (2)   Fifty-five miles per hour for all other highways, roads, and
streets.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601(a) - (d)) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1 and Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS AND WHILE TRAVELING THROUGH
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following entities:
      (1)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
      (2)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution.
      (3)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
   (B)   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling on a local, county, or
state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where
children pass going to and from school.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section a school day begins at 6:30 a.m. and
concludes at 4:00 p.m.
   (D)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the city wherein the school zone is located. With regard to the
special speed limit while passing schools, such signs shall give proper due
warning that a school zone is being approached and shall indicate the school
zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school
children are present.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating such zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding provided the use of
such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in such
special school speed zone.
   (F)   Except as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(e-5), a person who
violates this section is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of this section
are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first violation, a minimum
fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation, and community service in
an amount determined by the court.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(a) - (e)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in this city where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left- hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic- control devices to
be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct
that a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by
vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such devices.
   (B)   Two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making left turns by
drivers proceeding in opposite directions has been indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) of this section to
indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct
course, move right or left upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked
position. Unless the conditions of division (B) of this section are met, an
electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208 shall not
be left in the on position and must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, signal devices may be
flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn - hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn - hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed - hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one way traffic;
      (5)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) above. However, this
division (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center
line in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (D)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
   (E)   Division (D) above does not apply:
      (1)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
      (2)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to drive
in the right lane;
      (3)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it necessary
to drive in the left lane;
      (4)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
      (5)   When a vehicle changes lanes to comply with §
71.066 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-907.5 and 11-908;
      (6)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
      (7)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic control device; or
      (8)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances, and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties and vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or
individual proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe
distance, but not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual
and shall maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or
individual.
      (2)   A driver of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction on a highway may, subject to the provisions in division (D)(1)
above and §
71.044, pass to the left of the bicycle on a portion of the highway designated
as a no-passing zone under §
71.047 if the driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle when:
         (a)   The bicycle is traveling at a speed of less than half of the
posted speed limit of the highway;
         (b)   The driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle without
exceeding the posted speed limit of the highway; and
         (c)   There is sufficient distance to the left of the centerline of
the highway for the motor vehicle to meet the overtaking and passing
requirements under this section.
   (E)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward, or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian, or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
   (F)   Every person convicted of division (E) above shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not result in great bodily harm or
permanent disability or disfigurement to another. If the violation results in
great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to another, the
person shall be guilty of a Class 3 felony.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division (B) does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property, or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. Such stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12-805. The driver
of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the
driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D)(1) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be
actuated continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
school bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils
within an urban area and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the
school bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated
until the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated
at any other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing head lamps permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 12-805 may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal
lamps required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop such vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop such vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
   (F)   (1)   Beginning with the effective date of this amendatory Act of
1985, the Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of three months the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a violation of division (A)
above; the Secretary shall suspend for a period of one year the driving
privileges of any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
division (A) above if the second or subsequent violation occurs within five
years of a prior conviction for the same offense. In addition to the
suspensions authorized by this section, any person convicted of violating this
section shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $300 or, upon a second or
subsequent violation, $1,000, and community service in an amount set by the
court. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any suspension issued
under this division (F), a restricted driving permit granting the privilege of
driving a motor vehicle between the driver's residence and place of employment
or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State shall find necessary
to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall
be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State
in like manner and for like cause as a driver's license may be cancelled,
revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more offenses
against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be deemed
sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the
restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the
issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate
in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a
violation of this division (F) shall be included as an offense for the purposes
of determining suspension action under any other provision of this chapter,
provided however, that the penalties provided under this division (F) shall be
imposed unless those penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are
greater.
      (2)   The owner of any vehicle alleged to have violated division (A)(1)
above shall, upon appropriate demand by the State's Attorney or other
designated person acting in response to a signed complaint, provide a written
statement or deposition identifying the operator of the vehicle if such
operator was not the owner at the time of the alleged violation. Failure to
supply such information shall result in the suspension of the vehicle
registration of the vehicle for a period of three months. In the event the
owner has assigned control for the use of the vehicle to another, the person to
whom control was assigned shall comply with the provisions of this division (F)
(2) and be subject to the same penalties as herein provided.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway under its jurisdiction where overtaking and passing or driving on the
left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may by appropriate signs
or markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Upon
request of a local school board, City Council shall determine whether a
hazardous situation exists at a particular location and warrants a no-passing
zone. If City Council determines that a no-passing zone is warranted, the
school board and City Council shall share equally the cost of designating the
no-passing zone by signs and markings. When such signs or markings are in place
and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person every driver of a vehicle
shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver may at any time drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark such no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §§
71.040(A)(2),
71.042(D)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver’s direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707(a) - (c)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
On multi-lane controlled access highways with three or more lanes in one
direction or on any multi-laned highway with two or more lanes in one
direction, the Department nay designate lanes of traffic to be used by
different types of motor vehicles. Drivers must obey lane designation signing
except when it is necessary to use a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she is complying
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-907, 11-907.5, or 11-908.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of- way to
any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right- of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging traffic
the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to adjust his
vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with another
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal:
      (1)   The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall,
if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer; and
      (2)   The operator of every streetcar shall immediately stop such car
clear of any intersection and keep it in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
   (C)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle or
emergency scene, when the stationary authorized emergency vehicle is giving a
visual signal by displaying oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights as
authorized under ILCS Ch. 622, Act 12, § 215, a person who drives an
approaching vehicle shall:
      (1)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle and reduce the speed of the
vehicle to a speed that is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway to avoid a collision and leaving a safe
distance until safely past the stationary emergency vehicle; or
      (2)   If changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe, proceeding with
due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle to a speed that is reasonable and
proper with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the highway to avoid a
collision, maintaining a safe speed for road conditions, and leaving a safe
distance until safely past the stationary emergency vehicles.
      (3)   The visual signal specified under this division (C) given by a
stationary authorized emergency vehicle is an indication to drivers of
approaching vehicles that a hazardous condition is present when circumstances
are not immediately clear. Drivers of vehicles approaching a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle in any lane shall heed the warning of the signal,
reduce the speed of the vehicle, proceed with due caution, maintain a safe
speed for road conditions, be prepared to stop, and leave a safe distance until
safely passed the stationary emergency vehicle.
      (4)   As used in this division (C), AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE includes
any vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating, rotating, or
flashing lights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215, while the owner or
operator of the vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties. As used in
this division, EMERGENCY SCENE means a location where a stationary authorized
emergency vehicle as defined by herein is present and has activated its
oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights.
   (D)   A person who violates division (C) above commits a business offense
punishable by a fine of not less than $250 or more than $10,000 for the first
violation, and a fine of not less than $750 or more than $10,000 for a second
or subsequent violation. It is a factor in aggravation if the person committed
the offense while in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501, 12-610.1, or
12-610.2. Imposition of the penalties authorized by this division (D) for a
violation of division (C) above that results in the death of another person
does not preclude imposition of appropriate additional civil or criminal
penalties. A person who violates division (C) and the violation results in
damage to another vehicle commits a Class A misdemeanor. A person who violates
division (C) and the violation results in the injury or death of another person
commits a Class 4 felony.
   (E)   If a violation of division (C) above results in damage to the property
of another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person’s
driving privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less than 90
days and not more than one year.
   (F)   If a violation of division (C) above results in injury to another
person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person’s driving
privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less than 180 days and
not more than two years.
   (G)   If a violation of division (C) above results in the death of another
person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person’s driving
privileges shall be suspended for two years.
   (H)   The Secretary of State shall, upon receiving a record of a judgment
entered against a person under division (C) above:
      (1)   Suspend the person’s driving privileges for the mandatory period;
or
      (2)   Extend the period of an existing suspension by the appropriate
mandatory period.
   (I)   In addition to other penalties imposed by this section, the Court may
order a person convicted of a violation of division (C) to perform community
service as determined by the Court.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907)
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard
warning signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a
procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad
track equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing;
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
state law, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not always
required to stop but must slow down, the person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall slow down within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail
of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she checks that the tracks
are clear of an approaching train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The Illinois Department of Transportation (the “Department”), and
local authorities with the approval of the Department, are hereby authorized to
designate particularly dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to
erect stop signs thereat. When such stop signs are erected the driver of any
vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest
rail of such railroad and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
   (D)   (1)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck
signs, without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing
gates, or a human flagman giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train
or railroad track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the
railroad crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety,
at a clearly marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed
until he or she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a
railroad crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track
equipment after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or
interference is prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-
way.
      (2)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (E)   It is unlawful to violate any part of this section.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$500 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $500 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
   (F)   Corporate authorities of municipal corporations regulating operators
of vehicles that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach,
passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines
as established in division (E) above.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201)
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805. The driver of the bus,
in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this
division (A), must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including
heater blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (ii) open the
service door and driver’s window before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
      (3)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in state law, carrying
passengers for hire;
      (4)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
      (5)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned, industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication signal to proceed.
   (C)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in state
law, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is sufficient space
on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle
being operated without obstructing the passage of a train or other railroad
equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (D)   The Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of one month the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a violation of division (B) of
this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of division (B) of this section
or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or subsequent
violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the same offense.
In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any person convicted
of violating division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local
ordinance shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community
service. Any person given a disposition of court supervision for violating
division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall
also be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service.
Upon a second or subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions
authorized by this section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$500 and 50 hours community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the
duration of any suspension issued under this subsection, a restricted driving
permit granting the privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver’s
residence and place of employment or within other proper limits that the
Secretary of State shall find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A
restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall be subject to cancellation,
revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State in like manner and for like
cause as a driver’s license may be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that
a conviction upon one or more offenses against laws or ordinances regulating
the movement of traffic shall be deemed sufficient cause for the revocation,
suspension or cancellation of the restricted driving permit. The Secretary of
State may, as a condition to the issuance of a restricted driving permit,
require the applicant to participate in a designated driver remedial or
rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a violation of this subsection shall
be included as an offense for the purposes of determining suspension action
under any other provision of this code, provided however, that the penalties
provided under this subsection shall be imposed unless those penalties imposed
under other applicable provisions are greater.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway. This section does not
apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human power, to any electric personal
assistive mobility device, nor to any motorized wheelchair. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the authority of any home rule or
non-home rule unit of local government from regulating or prohibiting the use
of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.103 DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
105, § 3).
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) of this section upon any highway
shall immediately remove such material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215, hazardous waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, § 3.220, and potentially infectious medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 3.360, dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
city, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to interfere
with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this city
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of tractors in connection with the obtaining of repairs
thereto, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than 8,000 pounds for
use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the place of work or
repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11) The interval of space to be maintained between units of the parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   There shall be-paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council from time to time.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade win not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTlCE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFIClALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF REPORT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the unlts of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessry, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking places reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
72.13   Parking of certain motor vehicles prohibited
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.26   Termination of emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except on streets, if any, as set
forth
Chapter 78 of this title or in any future legislation of the city.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING
AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this
subparagraph (h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
   (B)   The city, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for the
maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion such stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using
the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any such regulations
adopted by the city regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
upon any specific street, streets or highways become effective at the time of
the erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations. Any such signs
may be erected either by the city or by a local authority with the approval of
the city.
   (C)   This section, §§
72.01 and
72.10 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all times that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b)12, if so equipped.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PLACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to
a veteran with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609, as
evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or a
veteran with a disability, in any parking place, including any private or
public offstreet parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park
any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place
specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Disability license plates and parking decals and
devices are not transferable from person to person. Proper usage of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device requires the authorized
holder to be present and enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking
privileges are being used. It is a violation of this section to park in a space
reserved for a person with disabilities if the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or
parking decal or device does not enter or exit the vehicle at the time the
parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a
disability license plate or a parking decal or device containing the
international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any local
authority, state, district, territory or foreign country shall be recognized by
state and local authorities as a valid license plate or device and receive the
same parking privileges as residents of this state.
      (2)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran
with a disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this
section if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this chapter.
      (3)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this section
if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through a disability license plate or
parking decal or device under this chapter.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private offstreet parking facility may, after notifying the police or sheriff’s
department, remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place
of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a
person with disabilities which does not display person with disabilities
registration plates or a special decal or device as required under this
section.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division
(A)(1) shall be fined $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under this section; but
the city by ordinance may impose a fine up to $350 and shall display signs
indicating the fine imposed. If the amount of the fine is subsequently changed,
the city shall change the sign to indicate the current amount of the fine. It
shall not be a defense to a charge under this section that either the sign
posted pursuant to this section or the intended accessible parking place does
not comply with the technical requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301,
Department regulations, or local ordinance if a reasonable person would be made
aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place that the place is
reserved for a person with disabilities.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division (A)
(2) a first time shall be fined $600. Any person found guilty of violating
division (A)(2) a second or subsequent time shall be fined $1,000. Any person
who violates division (A)(3) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be
fined $2,500. The circuit clerk shall distribute 50% of the fine imposed on any
person who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating this section,
including any person placed on court supervision for violating this section, to
the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the arrest. If more
than one law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the citation or
making the arrest, the 50% of the fine imposed shall be shared equally. If an
officer of the Secretary of State Department of Police arrested a person for a
violation of this section, 50% of the fine imposed shall be deposited into the
Secretary of State Police Services Fund.
   (D)   The city shall impose fines as established in divisions (C)(1) and (C)
(2) for violations of this section.
   (E)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616, an individual
issued a parking decal or device under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2, or an
individual issued a license plate for veterans with disabilities under ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 3-609.
   (F)   Any person who commits a violation of division (A)(2)may have his or
her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the Secretary of State for a
period of time determined by the Secretary of State. Any person who commits a
violation of division (A)(3) shall have his or her driving privileges revoked
by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke
the disability license plates or parking decal or device for a period of time
determined by the Secretary of State.
   (G)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3)
§ 72.13 PARKING OF CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall stand or park any truck, semi-
tractor, semi-trailer, bus, recreational vehicle or trailer, having two or more
axles, with a gross vehicle weight of 8,000 pounds or more, or which exceeds 20
feet in length and ten feet in height, on any street, on public property, or on
private property between the public right-of-way and the applicable set back
lines, in any residence district within the city for a period longer than is
necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle; provided
that where any street fronts in part on a residence district and in part of any
district otherwise classified by the applicable zoning laws, this section shall
restrict such standing or parking only to such portion of such street which
fronts on the residence district.
   (B)   Immediately after sufficient notice of the provisions hereof shall be
given to the public, the enforcement is hereby authorized and violators shall
be subject to fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
   (C)   The city has deemed that parking restrictions in residential areas of
the city are a necessity. The city realizes that vehicles parked along the city
right-of-way can pose a hazard by lessening driver and pedestrian visibility,
and is needed to help preserve neighborhoods.
      (1)   Motorized and non- motorized vehicles such as recreational
vehicles, camper trailers, boats, and utility trailers shall not be parked on
residential streets for a period extending ten days.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles located in residential areas, must be parked
in a side or rear yard. R.V.’s may not be used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Side storage of a recreational vehicle must maintain a minimum of
three feet from a property line.
      (4)   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any
provision of this division (C) shall upon conviction be fined $25 for each
offense.
      (5)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (C):
         (a)   A recreational vehicle (R.V.) shall be described as a motor
home, travel trailer, camping trailer, boat, personal water craft, or all
terrain vehicle, including the trailer used to transport.
         (b)   Right-of-way shall be described as any street, alley, other land
or waterway, dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements in which the city has the right and authority to authorize, regulate
or permit the location of facilities other than those of personal city property
that is not specifically described in the previous two sentences and shall not
include city buildings, fixtures, and other structures or improvements,
regardless of whether they are situated in the right-of-way, as defined in §
95.02.
(Ord. 679, passed 4-7-97; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-19-13)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or, in his absence, the Chief of Police finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Mayor or, in his absence, the Chief of Police has not announced
prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited
after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain
so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking
announced by the Mayor or, in his absence, the Chief of Police under the
authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces the
termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Officers authorized to remove vehicles, see §
72.40
§ 72.26 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor shall find that some or all of the conditions which gave
rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to
declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective
immediately on announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:
00 a.m. and 11:00 pm., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.27 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Mayor.
On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, special signs
shall be posted to this effect.
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.11 such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, in such a position or under
such circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever the Illinois Department of Transportation (the
“Department”) finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle standing upon the paved or
main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or may be expected to
interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or interfere with the
maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to move the vehicle to
a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a
highway when:
      (1)   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner, or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal, or
      (3)   The person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay, or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, cancelled, or
revoked.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to tow during snow emergency, see §
72.25
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving such vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates or
digital registration plates and registration sticker or stickers or digital
registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99(B).
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND GOLF CARTS
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.08   Riding on mopeds
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
Golf Carts
   
73.30   Policy statement
   
73.31   Definitions
   
73.32   Rules and regulations
   
73.33   Equipment
   
73.34   Permits
   
73.35   Enforcement
   
73.36   Violation
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-
901 et seq., and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this chapter, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have
no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable and safe to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division, a “substandard width lane” means a lane that is
too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11- 1505.1)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Illinois Department of Transportation (the “Department”) which shall be
visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a
lamp emitting a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren. This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle that is a
police vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the Department, on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle provided. The requirements of
this division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least
three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate
as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or
rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on
both the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to
specifications prescribed by the Department.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet, or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to mopeds.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, glasses, goggles, and transparent
shields are defined as follows:
      (1)   GLASSES means ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses
worn before the eye, made of shatter-resistant material. Shatter- resistant
material, as used in this section, means material so manufactured, fabricated,
or created that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or
broken.
      (2)   GOGGLES means a device worn before the eyes, the predominant
function of which is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision.
Goggles shall provide protection from the front and sides, and may or may not
form a complete seal with the face.
      (3)   TRANSPARENT SHIELD means a windshield attached to the front of a
motorcycle that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the
normal, upright riding position, made of shatter-resistant material, or a
shatter-resistant protective face shield that covers the wearer’s eyes and face
at least to a point approximately to the tip of the nose.
   (C)   Contact lenses are not acceptable eye protection devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.30 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts are
not designed or manufactured to be used on public street and roads hereinafter
referred to as “streets,” and the city does not advocate or endorse their
safety issues. This subchapter is not to be relied upon as determination that
operation of golf carts on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this subchapter. All persons operating golf carts must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. All persons who
operate or ride golf carts on city streets inside the city do so at their own
risk and peril. The city disavows any liability for permitting golf carts to be
operated on the city streets. Use of a golf cart on public streets is a
privilege, not a right.
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13)
§ 73.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaging in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9).
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201).
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13)
§ 73.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts may only be operated on streets within the city in accordance
with the following rules and regulations:
   (A)   Any person who operates a golf cart in the city assumes full
responsibility for all liability associated with the operation of the cart.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 18 years of age
and possess a valid driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
State of Illinois or any other state.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must possess proof of liability
insurance for personal injury and property damage with limits of liability not
less than the minimum required by the State of Illinois for the operation of a
passenger vehicle.
   (D)   Golf carts may only be operated on streets from sunrise to sunset.
   (E)   Golf carts may not be operated when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light
to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (F)   Golf carts shall be equipped with headlights and taillights and
illuminated at all times when operated on city streets as required by ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 12-201.
   (G)   Golf carts may not be operated other than on dedicated streets,
alleys, and parking areas within the city.
   (H)   Golf carts may be operated on city streets which have posted speed
limits of 30 miles per hour or less, but golf carts may not exceed 20 miles per
hour. This section does not prohibit golf carts from crossing a road or street
at a stop intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit
greater than 30 miles per hour.
   (I)   Golf carts shall not be operated on Illinois state highways. Golf
carts may only cross highways at posted stop intersections.
   (J)   Any person who operates a golf cart on city streets must obey and
adhere to all State of Illinois traffic laws.
   (K)   Any person who operates a golf cart on city streets must yield right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching or overtaking them at all times.
   (L)   The maximum occupancy of golf carts traveling on city streets will be
one per bucket seat or three per bench dependent upon number of available seat
belts.
   (M)   Golf carts are only allowed to park in handicapped parking spaces if
the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking sticker and
that sticker is clearly visible in the cart.
   (N)   All golf carts operated on city streets must be inspected by the
person(s) designated by the City Manager and must have valid permit
documentation from the city securely affixed to and clearly visible on the
exterior of the golf cart.
   (O)   Golf carts displaying an annual permit may be operated year-round as
long as weather permits. Golf carts displaying a temporary permit may be
operated only from March 5 through September 30, inclusive, as long as weather
permits.
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-4-14; Am. Ord. 1003, passed
3-19-18)
§ 73.33 EQUIPMENT.
   Golf carts shall be properly equipped with the following:
   (A)   Horn;
   (B)   Brakes and brake lights;
   (C)   Turn signals;
   (D)   A steering wheel apparatus;
   (E)   Tires;
   (F)   Rearview mirror;
   (G)   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem on rear of vehicle (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 12-709);
   (H)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the front which must be illuminated when in operation;
   (I)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from a distance of 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
   (J)   Any additional requirements which may be amended by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, §§ 11-1426.1;
   (K)   All requirements set forth in Chapter 625 of the Illinois Complied
Statutes (ILCS Ch. 625).
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13)
§ 73.34 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart without obtaining a
permit from the city as provided in this section.
   (B)   Annual permits may be granted for a period of one year and may be
renewed annually. Temporary permits may be granted for the period running from
March 5 through September 30, inclusive, of any given calendar year and may be
renewed each season.
   (C)   The cost of an annual permit shall be $50 per year. The cost of a
temporary permit shall be $25 per season. Insurance coverage will be verified
prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (D)   The city retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit
for any golf cart at any time for any violation of this subchapter or any other
ordinance, rule, regulation or state or federal rule, regulation or statute.
The completed application shall be maintained by the city.
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-4-14; Am. Ord. 1003, passed
3-19-18)
§ 73.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any act constituting a violation of this subchapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements within the permit’s valid year is subject
to a fine, suspension, or permanent revocation of a permit.
   (B)   Fines are:
      (1)   A first offense is a fine of $50.
      (2)   A second offense is a fine of $100 and suspension of privileges for
30 days.
      (3)   A third offense is a $200 fine and suspension of privileges for at
least one year from the date of suspension or permanent revocation as
recommended to the City Manager. Permanent revocation could be attributed to
gross negligence and/or endangerment to others and self.
   (C)   Anyone caught driving while permit is suspended will lose privileges
for one year from date of violation.
   (D)   Any fine levied for a violation of this subchapter is to be paid to
the City Clerk within 30 days of the issuance of the violation. Any failure to
pay will result in the issuance of a summons to appear in DeWitt County court.
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13)
§ 73.36 VIOLATION.
   Any failure of an individual to abide by this subchapter or otherwise secure
a permit provided herein when operating a golf cart upon the streets of the
city shall subject the violator to a fine of $500.
(Ord. 925, passed 10-7-13)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrians’ right-
of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply under the condition stated in §
74.03 (B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING IMPAIRED, OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-
OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this city shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act.
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, where a sidewalk
is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, where a sidewalk
is not available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk
only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, where neither a
sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a
highway shall walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway, and,
if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   In municipalities with a population of under 2,000,000 inhabitants,
upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 miles per hour or
less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is 18
years of age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians
wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other
vehicular traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to
all other rights and duties under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, Art. X. Nothing in this
code shall be construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing in-line speed skates
from using a lane designated for bicycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signs meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12801, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the presence, approach, passage, or departure of a railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   A violation of any part of this section is a petty offense for which a
$250 fine shall be imposed for a first violation, and a $500 fine shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $250 fine for a first violation.
   (E)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (D) of
this section for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011)
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-101 et seq., or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to farm wagon type trailers
having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a
gross weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the
transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to farmwagon type tank trailers of not to
exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
highways only for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local
source of supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across or
for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in this subchapter or otherwise in violation of this
chapter, and the maximum size and weight of vehicles herein specified shall be
lawful throughout this state, and local authorities shall have no power or
authority to alter such limitations except as express authority may be granted
in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this chapter governing size, weight, and load
do not apply to equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned or operated
by any governmental body, or to implements of husbandry, as defined in §
70.01, temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a highway provided
such combination does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case
of hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of
first processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit issued
hereunder. Except for weight limits on Class I highways under this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter governing size, weight, and load do not apply to
fire apparatus or emergency vehicles.
      (2)   (a)   The provisions of this chapter governing size, weight, and
load do not apply to any snow and ice removal equipment that is no more than 12
feet in width, if the equipment displays flags at least 18 inches square
mounted on the driver's side of the snow plow.
         (b)   These vehicles must be equipped with an illuminated rotating,
oscillating, or flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber strobe
light or lights, mounted on the top of the cab and of sufficient intensity to
be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. If the load on the transport vehicle
blocks the visibility of the amber lighting from the rear of the vehicle, the
vehicle must also be equipped with an illuminated rotating, oscillating, or
flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber strobe light or lights,
mounted on the rear of the load and of sufficient intensity to be visible at
500 feet in normal sunlight.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101)
   (C)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the city in
violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions, if any, as set forth in this title or in any future legislation
of the city.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless the protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this city, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111.8) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Street racing
   
76.03   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Crash involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)(1)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 STREET RACING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway of
this city.
   (B)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
      (1)   ACQUIESCE or PERMIT means actual knowledge that the motor vehicle
was to be used for the purpose of street racing or a street sideshow.
      (2)   STREET RACING means:
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other;
         (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, eachstarting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit;
         (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle;
         (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing;
         (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
         (f)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible and shall
then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the
crash until the requirements of §
76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) above shall, as soon as possible but in no case later than one-
half hour after such motor vehicle crash, or, if hospitalized and incapacitated
from reporting at any time during such period, as soon as possible but in no
case later than one-half hour after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of the crash, the date, the approximate time, the driver’s name and
address, the registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of all
other occupants of such vehicle, at a police station or sheriff’s office near
the place where such crash occurred. No report made as required under this
division (B) shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the
prosecution of any violation of division (A) above.
   (C)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to chemical
testing of his or her blood, breath, other bodily substance, or urine for the
presence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds,
or any combination thereof, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1, if
the testing occurs within 12 hours of the time of the occurrence of the crash
that led to his or her arrest. The person’s driving privileges are subject to
statutory summary suspension under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1 if he or she
fails testing or statutory summary revocation under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
501.1 if he or she refuses to undergo the testing.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401(a) - (b-1), (e)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon
request and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person struck or
the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and
shall render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the crash at the Police Department, disclosing the information
required by this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 CRASH INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or as
close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§
76.04 have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the driver
moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest safe
location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable cross
street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and remains
at that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
76.04. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-
204. Upon receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that
the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license or any nonresident’s driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
Traffic Code or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) of this section, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213(b).
   (E)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402)
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a
motor vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority and shall make
a written report of such crash when and as required in §
76.07. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
Traffic Code or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (C)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (B) of this section, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213(b).
   (D)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404)
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this city, resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which
damage to the property of any one address, person, including himself, in excess
of $250 is sustained shall as soon as possible but not later than ten days
after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the accident
report required to be filed with the state under state law.
   (B)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this city, caused
by a collision, a sudden stop, or otherwise, resulting in any property damage,
personal injury, or death, and whenever an accident occurs within 50 feet of a
school bus in this city resulting in personal injury to or the death of any
person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately after
exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but not later than ten
days after the accident, forward a written report to the Police Department. If
a report is also required under division (A) above, that report and the report
required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single form.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant, or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or this code to file supplemental reports whenever the original
report is insufficient in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require
witnesses of the accident to submit written reports. The report may include
photographs, charts, sketches, and graphs.
   (D)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents
required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under §
76.08 and the driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under (A)
or (C) above or this code within the time specified, the person is not relieved
of the responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by
first class mail directed to his last known address of his legal obligation.
However, the notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty
for failure to report as provided in (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver’s license or any
nonresident’s driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make
report of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law
of this state.
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for city to require accident reports, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 11-415
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
§
76.08 with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false shall
be fined as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409)
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER PAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Through streets
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   One-way streets or alleys
      
V.   Loading and unloading zones
      
VI.   Turning prohibitions
      
VII.   Yield intersections
      
VIII.   Through truck traffic prohibited
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The City Council has approved the proposed absolute maximum speed
limits for the zone or zones of those streets described in this schedule and
directs that signs giving notice thereof shall be erected in conformance with
the standards and specifications contained in the Illinois Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Services for Streets and Highways.
Zone Absolute Maximum Speed Limit (MPH) Ord. No. Date Passed
Zone                         Absolute Maximum Speed Limit  Ord. No. Date Passed
                             (MPH)
Allen Street from John       25                            534      4-20-87
Street to Route 54
*Blue Ridge School District  20                            699      8-3-98
at 1002 East Allen Street
Main Street from south city  30                            534      4-20-87
limit to Route 54
Main Street from High Street 25                            534      4-20-87
to north city limit
Main Street from Route 54 to 20                            534      4-20-87
High Street
High Street from Harrison    25                            534      4-20-87
Avenue to Route 54
Except the school zone of
High Street from Lincoln     20                            534      4-20-87
Street to State Street
John Street from Route 54 to 25                            534      4-20-87
U.S. Route 150
Except the school zone of
John Street from Monroe      20                            534      4-20-87
Street to High Street
Plum Street, Clinton Avenue  25                            794      4-5-04
to north terminus
 
   *Any person violating this provision of this schedule shall be fined a
minimum of $150 and no more than $500.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by ordinance
as through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
 
Street            Description                             Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Starting at the intersection of Rt. 54/
John Street       Clinton Avenue and John on the south to 1016     10-15-18
                  the intersection of Jackson Street and
                  John on the north
                  Commencing at the intersection of Dodge
North John Street Street and North John Street thence     320      10-5-59
                  south to the intersection of Allen
                  Street and North John Street
                  Commencing at the intersection of Green
South Main Street Street and South Main Street, thence    320      10-5-59
                  south to the intersection of South Main
                  Street and Clinton Avenue
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following locations are designated as stop intersections.
Street            Direction of      Stop Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Traffic
Allen Street      Eastbound and     Main Street       667      7-1-96
                  westbound
Brookview Drive   Southbound        High Street       801      8-2-04
Dodge Street      East and west     Plum Street       534; 648 4-20-87; 6-5-95
Dodge Street      Eastbound and     Main Street       801      8-2-04
                  westbound
Green Street      East and west     Center Street     695      6-1-98
High Street       East and west     Plum Street       534      4-20-87
High Street       East and west     John Street       648      6-5-95
High Street       East and west     Main Street       695      6-1-98
                  Eastbound and
High Street       westbound (remove Plum Street       822      6-19-06
                  sign)
Hill Street       Approaching from  John Street       582      10-21-91
                  both directions
James Street      Southbound        Water Street      667      7-1-96
James Street      Northbound and    Market Street     667      7-1-96
                  southbound
John Street       North and south   Water Street      655      10-2-95
John Street       Northbound and    High Street       719      8-2-99
                  southbound
John Street       North and south   Richardson Street 647      5-1-95
John Street       North and south   Monroe Street     848      9-8-08
John Street       East and west     Jackson Street    892      9-19-11
Monroe Street     West              John Street       848      9-8-08
Plum Street       Approaching from  Dodge Street      582      10-21-91
                  both directions
Plum Street       Approaching from  Richardson Street 582      10-21-91
                  both directions
Plum Street       Northbound and    Water Street      667      7-1-96
                  southbound
Plum Street       Northbound and    High Street       822      6-19-06
                  southbound
Plum Street       North and south   Allen Street      885      7-5-11
Richardson Street East and west     Plum Street       648      6-5-95
Van Buren Street  Eastbound and     Main Street       667      7-1-96
                  westbound
Walnut Street     North and south   Richardson Street 534      4-20-87
Water Street      East and west     John Street       655      10-2-95
William Street    North and south   High Street       864      11-2-09
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 and no more than $500 for each offense.
(Am. Ord. 891, passed 9-19-11)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated.
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
John Street, vehicle traffic is restricted to one-way
(southbound) from Allen Street intersection to Monroe
Street intersection on official school days between the    1036     8-5-19
hours of 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00
p.m.
Street surrounding the public square or city park from     320      10-5-59
Main Street or Market Street shall turn right
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
SCHEDULE V. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The following location shall be designated as a bus loading zone:
 
Street      Side Location                       Ord. No. Date Passed
John Street West Between Allen and Dodge Street 534      4-20-87
                 intersections
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
SCHEDULE VI. TURNING PROHIBITIONS.
 
Street     Location  Direction of Travel Sign Language     Ord. No. Date Passed
Richardson John      West-bound          "No left turn"    610      11-16-92
                                         "No right turn on
John       Gymnasium East-bound          school days when  610      11-16-92
           driveways                     children are
                                         present"
 
SCHEDULE VII. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following locations are designated as yield intersections.
 
Street        Direction of Traffic Yield Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
John Street   North and south      Depot Road         848      9-8-08
Market Street East and west        West Street        648      6-5-95
 
SCHEDULE VIII. THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person to drive a truck on the streets,
highways, roadways, or alleys in the city described in division (C) of this
schedule except for the purpose of making business deliveries or pick up of
personal property, or performing contractual services for hire, or of going to
one's home as not otherwise prohibited by law. Any person driving a truck for
one of the purposes enumerated in this division on streets where through truck
traffic is prohibited shall limit the distance traveled on such streets by
entering and leaving the prohibited streets at the nearest intersections with
streets suitable for truck traffic to the destination of the vehicle.
   (B)   Every person found driving a truck on the streets, highways, roadways
or alleys described in division (C) of this schedule shall be presumed to be
driving said truck in violation of division (A) and shall be issued a traffic
citation therefor. Proof that a person was driving a truck on said streets,
highways, roadways, or alleys shall constitute a prima facie case and as a
defense to such citations the person receiving the citation shall have the
burden of proof to show that at the time the citation was issued the person was
driving the truck to or from a location on said streets, highways, roadways or
alleys for one of the purposes and in the manner allowed in division (A) of
this schedule.
   (C)   It shall be illegal for any person to drive any trucks on the
following streets, highways, roadways or alleys in the city:
      (1)   John Street between Clinton Avenue and Monroe Street.
      (2)   Allen Street between Clinton Avenue and Main Street.
      (3)   Main Street between U.S. Route 150 and Illinois Route 54/Clinton
Avenue.
      (4)   Plum Street between U.S. Route 150 and Illinois Route 54/Clinton
Avenue.
      (5)   High Street between Illinois Route 54/Clinton Avenue and Harrison
Street.
   (D)   The City Manager shall cause appropriate signs to be erected along
such streets as soon as reasonably practicable. The restrictions imposed and so
designated by this schedule shall become effective when such applicable signs
are so erected.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 1137, passed 2-3-25)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Restricted parking
      
III.   Handicapped parking spaces
      
IV.   Loading and unloading zone
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking shall be prohibited at the following locations.
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location                          Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Clinton Avenue     Throughout the city within city   Both  545      11-7-88
F.A.P. Route 71    limits
East High Street   Between West Street and Center    South 534      4-20-87
                   Street
High Street        From James Street to Grove Street South 883      2-21-11
James Street       From High Street to Market Street East  883      2-21-11
John Street        Between Allen Street and Dodge    West  534      4-20-87
                   Street intersections
                   Park playground area from Jackson
John Street        Street intersection to Dodge           534      4-20-87
                   Street intersection
                   Between Rt. 54/Clinton Ave and
                   Water Street intersection is
                   restricted to on- street on the
Maple Street       east side of Maple Street. No     East  1038     9-3-19
                   parking shall be permitted on the
                   public right-of-way unless said
                   parking is on-street on the east
                   side of Maple Street
                   From the Lincoln Street
Market Street      intersection to the William       South 534      4-20-87
                   Street intersection
Market Street      From Main Street to West Street   South 883      2-21-11
                   100 block from the existing
East Market Street designated handicapped parking    North 733      6-15-00
                   area thence 100 feet east
                   From the intersection of the
South Main Street  south side of Clinton Avenue and  East  320      10-5-59
                   South Main Street, south a
                   distance of 50 feet
                   From the intersection of the
South Main Street  south side of Clinton Avenue and  West  320      10-5-59
                   South Main Street, south a
                   distance of 50 feet
                   Between Service Way and Hallam
                   intersection is restricted to on-
                   street on the north side of Water
Water Street       Street. No parking shall be       North 1038     9-3-19
                   permitted on the public right-of-
                   way unless said parking is on-
                   street on the north side of Water
                   Street
Water Street       From the intersection of Service  South 883      2-21-11
                   Way to Washington Street
Washington Street  From Water Street to Green Street East  883      2-21-11
William Street     From Water Street to Green Street East  883      2-21-11
 
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance of
emergency duties, nor shall provisions apply to persons actually engaged in
repairing or otherwise improving the street under the authority of the city or
under the authority of the state. (Ord. 545, passed 11-7-88)
   (C)   Vehicles parked in no parking zones will be towed at the owner’s
expense. (Ord. 534, passed 4-20-87)
   (D)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
provision of this schedule shall upon conviction, be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500 for each offense. (Ord. 545, passed 11-7-88)
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Parking shall be prohibited at the following locations:
 
Street      Location                               Side Ord. No. Date Passed
            From the intersection of Market Street
Plum Street north to the intersection of Jackson   East 996      1-2-18
            Street
 
      (2)   The provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking shall not apply
to emergency vehicles, while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance
of emergency duties, nor shall provisions apply to persons engaged in repairing
or improving the street under the authority of the city or under the authority
of the state. (Ord. 545, passed 11-7-98)
      (3)   Definition. For the purposes of this division (A), an EMERGENCY
VEHICLE shall be described as a vehicle licensed to transport injured persons,
used in the extinguishment of fires, operated by a governmental entity for the
purpose of snow removal, and vehicles used in law enforcement duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
permit any vehicle to remain at the following locations for more than the
amount of time indicated.
 
Street            Location          Side Restriction       Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Between Route 54       Parking
                  and the north          prohibited from
Main Street       side of the city      12:00 a.m. to 6:  534      4-20-87
                  square                 00 a.m. on
                                         Sundays
                                         While school
                                         classes are in
                                         session at the
                                         Farmer City-
                  Between Dodge          Mansfield High
North John Street street and Allen  East School and the    409      6-20-72
                  Street                 Ruth M. Schneider
                                         School between
                                         the hours of 8:00
                                         a.m. and 4:00
                                         p.m.
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  Clinton Avenue         Parking
                  north, thence          prohibited
South Main Street north on south    West between the hours 409      6-20-72
                  Main Street to         of 2:00 a.m. and
                  around both sides      5:00 am.
                  of the city park       east
                  (Central Park) to
                  North Main Street
 
   (C)   Parking shall be restricted in the following manner.
 
                                                          Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Between Dodge          Angle parking
North John Street Street and Allen  West only             409      6-20-72
                  Street
                  Between the north      Reverse diagonal
                  driveway entrance      parking with the
North John Street to Blue Ridge     West back of the      1035     8-5-19
                  High School and        vehicle next to
                  Allen Street           the west edge of
                  intersection           the street only
 
   (D)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The following locations are designated as handicapped parking spaces:
 
Location                                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
First parking spot north of the Water Street intersection 534      4-20-87
on the east side of Main Street
First parking spot west of Main Street on the south side  534      4-20-87
of Green Street
First parking spot west of the alley at the south east    534      4-20-87
corner of the city square on Main Street
First parking spot in the southwest corner of the square  1076     11-15-21
in front of VFW Post No. 6190, 106 S. Main Street
 
   (B)   (1)   Four parking spaces in the parking lot of South Park are
designated exclusively for vehicles bearing registration plates specified in §
11-1301.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1) or a
special decal or devise as defined in § 11-1301.2 (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
1301.2). The four spaces are generally described as follows:
         (a)   In the parking lot of the pavilion nearest the entrance to South
Park;
         (b)   In the parking lot at the entrance to the camp site;
         (c)   In the grassy parking lot near the back pavilion; and
         (d)   By the baseball concession stand.
      (2)   The City Manager is authorized and directed to install all
appropriate signage to designate the above-described four handicapped parking
spaces.
      (3)   All vehicles and persons parking in these designated handicapped
parking spaces without bearing registration plates specified in § 11-1301.1 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1) or a special decal
or devise s defined in § 11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-1301.2) are subject to towing, and shall be guilty of an ordinance
violation and subject to a minimum fine of $250 and maximum fine of $750, as
allowed by law and ordinance.
   (C)   Penalty. Except as otherwise provided herein, any person violating any
provision of this schedule shall be lined not less than $50 nor more than $500
for each offense.
(Am. Ord. 988, passed 10-16-17)
SCHEDULE IV. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The following locations are designated as loading and unloading zones.
 
Street             Location                         Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
                   200 block starting at the
East Market Street intersection with Lincoln Street South 745      10-2-00
                   extending to the west 100 feet
 
   (B)   Immediately after sufficient notice of the provisions of this schedule
shall be given to the public, the enforcement is hereby authorized and
violators shall be subject to a fine of $3 in addition to any costs or charges
connected with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 745, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 1002, passed 3-19-18)
CHAPTER 79: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES
Section
   
79.01   Definitions
   
79.02   Vehicles subject to seizure and impounding
   
79.03   Seizure and impounding of vehicles
   
79.04   Exceptions
   
79.05   Posting of bond
   
79.06   Preliminary hearing
   
79.07   Owner’s hearing
   
79.08   Unclaimed vehicles
   
79.09   Liability for penalty and costs
   
79.10   Hearing officer
   
79.11   Decision review
   
79.12   Other offenses authorizing towing/impound of vehicles
   
79.13   Funds management
§ 79.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance as defined and included in the schedule
contained in Article II of the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 570, § 1201) and cannabis as defined in § 1 of the Cannabis Control Act
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 11 et seq.).
   DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.  Any violation as defined in § 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501).
   DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED. Any violation as defined in § 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303).
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any equipment, product, and/or materials as defined in §
2 of the Drug Paraphernalia Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, § 2).
   HEARING OFFICER. A licensed attorney who is not an officer or employee of
the city.
   OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE. A violation of §
6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended from time to time (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 6-101).
   OWNER OF RECORD. The record title holder to a motor vehicle as registered
with the Secretary of State, State of Illinois.
   UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS. A violation of § 24-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1).
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.02 VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING.
   A motor vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this
chapter where such motor vehicle is used in any of the following:
   (A)    The possession or delivery of a controlled substance or drug
paraphernalia;
   (B)   Driving under the influence;
   (C)   Driving while license, permit, or privilege to operate a motor vehicle
is suspended or revoked;
   (D)   The unlawful use of weapons; or
   (E)   Driving without a valid driver’s license (expired greater than one
year, never been issued a driver’s license, foreign license in use outside of
limitations).
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.03 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall cause the motor vehicle to be towed to facility controlled by the city or
its agent(s). When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any
person identifying himself or herself as the owner of the vehicle or any person
who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply if at the time of the
offense, the vehicle was found to have been stolen and the theft was reported
to the appropriate police authority within 24 hours after the theft was, or
reasonably should have been discovered, or if the vehicle is a common carrier,
i.e. a taxi carrying paying passengers or bus.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.05 POSTING OF BOND.
   If a bond in the amount of $450 is posted with the city, the impounded
vehicle will be released to the owner of record, upon the payment by the owner
of record of the towing and storage costs. If a penalty is imposed for a
violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited to the city; provided, in
the event that a violation of this chapter is not proven, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
chapter will be held by the city until the Hearing Officer issues a decision,
or, if there is a judicial review, until the court issues its final decision.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.06 PRELIMINARY HEARING.
   Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this
chapter requests a preliminary hearing within 12 hours after the seizure of the
motor vehicle, a Hearing Officer of the city must conduct a preliminary hearing
within 72 business hours after the request for preliminary hearing is received
by the city; not including Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays. For purposes
of this section, the following shall apply:
   (A)   All interested persons will be given reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing;
   (B)   The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay testimony will be allowed, and will be admissible;
   (C)   If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines
that there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided, the Hearing Officer shall order the continued impoundment
of the vehicle, unless the owner of the vehicle posts a cash bond with the city
in the amount of $450, plus makes restitution of the towing and storage costs;
and
   (D)   If the Hearing Officer determines that there is not probable cause to
believe that the vehicle was used as hereinabove provided, the motor vehicle
will be returned to the owner of record of the vehicle without penalty or other
costs, other than the towing and storage fees.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.07 OWNER’S HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. Within ten days of the vehicle’s impoundment, the
city shall notify the owner of record of the motor vehicle by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and first class mail, postage prepaid, of his/her
right to a full hearing before the Hearing Officer to determine whether the
subject vehicle is eligible for impoundment; and that, in the event the owner
of record would like a hearing, he or she must file a request for such hearing
in writing to the Farmer City Police Department at 105 South Main Street,
Farmer City, Illinois, within 15 days of the posted date of the notice. If a
written request is not received within fifteen days of mailing the notice, then
the owner is defaulted and the impoundment fee will be kept by the city or if
no fee posted, then the vehicle can be sold as abandoned 30 days after the
default.
   (B)   Hearing. For purposes of this section, the following shall apply to
the owner’s hearing:
      (1)   Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing shall
be held within 30 days after a request for hearing is received by the Farmer
City Police Department;
      (2)   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing;
      (3)   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided, the Hearing Officer shall order the continued impoundment
of the vehicle until the owner of the vehicle pays to the city a penalty in the
amount of $450, plus shows restitution of towing and storage costs. The penalty
shall be a debt due to the city;
      (4)   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the city, which order shall
require the payment to the city of an administrative penalty of $450; and
      (5)   If the Hearing Officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
hereinabove provided, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the owner of
record of the vehicle without penalty or other costs, other than the cost of
towing and storage, and, if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash
bond shall be returned.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.08 UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within 30 days after the expiration of time in which administrative review
of the Hearing Officer’s determination may be sought, or within 30 days after
an action seeking administrative review has been resolved in favor of the city,
whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed
vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.09 LIABILITY FOR PENALTY AND COSTS.
   (A)   The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded
shall be liable to the city of a penalty of $450 in addition to any fees for
the towing and storage of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Fees for towing and storage are established by the towing company, and
not by the city.
   (C)   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until the earlier of the following occur:
      (1)   The penalty is paid to the city, and all towing and storage costs
are paid to the towing company;
      (2)   A bond in an amount equal to the liability of the owner as herein
provided in division (A) of this section is posted with the city and all
applicable towing and storage costs are paid to the towing company; and
      (3)   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned or
unclaimed vehicles.
   (D)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien
holder, or any other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the penalty and all towing and
storage costs applicable under this chapter have been paid in full.
   (E)   Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record against an
impounded vehicle has proof of commenced foreclosure or repossession
proceedings, and also provides the city with a hold harmless letter, possession
of the vehicle shall be given to that lien holder upon payment of bond and all
towing and storage costs.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.10 HEARING OFFICER.
   The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the City Manager. The Hearing
Officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois
for a minimum of three years next preceding the date of his or her appointment.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.11 DECISION REVIEW.
   Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the Hearing Officer may appeal
that decision pursuant to the provision of the Illinois Administrative Review
Act (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.).
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.12 OTHER OFFENSES AUTHORIZING TOWING/IMPOUND OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle meeting the criteria to tow and impound as described
in the Illinois Vehicle Code, and not meeting the aforementioned criteria for
the administrative fee, shall be towed and impounded in accordance with
provisions established in the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625) and assessed
a $30 daily (per 24 hour) storage fee, in addition to any applicable towing
and/or storage costs imposed by the towing company.
   (B)   No additional storage fees shall be applied to the administrative fee
schedule set forth in this chapter (§
79.02).
   (C)   Daily storage fees shall only apply to those vehicles towed and
impounded for offenses not related to and described in this chapter (§
79.02).
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09)
§ 79.13 FUNDS MANAGEMENT.
   All funds related to penalties and forfeiture described in this chapter
shall be managed by the City Clerk. All such funds shall be deposited in the
General Funds Account of the city.
(Ord. 860, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2019-1029, passed 4-1-19)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
APPENDIX: NOTICE OF INTENT TO TOW VEHICLE
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   BRUSH AND TREE LIMB REMOVAL
      
94.   GROUND FLOOR RESIDENCES ON MAIN STREET
      
95.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
96.   HOTEL ROOM GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS TAX
      
97.   REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF VACANT STRUCTURES AND PROPERTIES
      
98.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Adopting of state laws, supplemental
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Animals running at large
   
90.04   Disturbing the peace; loud noises
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals
   
90.06   Care of impounded animals
   
90.07   Notice of impoundment; impounding fees
   
90.08   Inoculation and tags
   
90.09   Animal bites
   
90.10   Animals - removal of excrement
   
90.11   Keeping animals other than domesticated pets
   
90.12   Keeping of bees and inconveniences to others
   
90.13   Keeping of dogs and cats
   
90.14   Prohibited at large; responsibility of owner
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ADOPTING OF STATE LAWS, SUPPLEMENTAL.
   This chapter adopts and supplements the Animal Control Act of ILCS Ch. 510,
Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than man, which may be affected by rabies.
   OWNER. Any person who shelters, harbors, feeds, encourages or permits an
animal to remain at, near or about his premises or living quarters shall be
deemed the owner of keeper of such animal and responsible therefor.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit any animal to
run at large within the city. Any animal found upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed place shall be deemed running at
large, unless said animal is firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed
vehicle. Any animal which is found upon the private premises of any person
other than the owner or keeper of that animal shall be deemed running at large
unless firmly held on a leash or in an enclosed vehicle and upon the owner of
the property’s permission.
   (B)   Any person inconvenienced or injured, or who may be in danger of being
injured, either in person or property, by reason of the unlawful running at
large in the city of any animal contrary to this chapter, or upon whose
property the animal has been running at large (whether or not that person is in
danger of aforesaid injury), may capture that animal and drive the animal to
the county pound.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE; LOUD NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
by loud noises at any time, day or night.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No dog or cat shall be tethered with a lead of less than ten feet, to
an object or structure, including, without limitation, house, post, tree,
fence, garage, shed or clothes line at a person’s residence or place of
business.
   (B)   No dog or cat shall be allowed to remain outside and unprotected for
any period of time during extreme weather conditions including but not limited
to heat, cold, rain and snow regardless of whether a doghouse or similar
shelter is provided.
   (C)   No dog or cat shall be left unattended without proper food and water.
   (D)   No dog shall be tethered from the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
that unreasonably limits the dog’s movement.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83; Am. Ord. 947, passed 4-6-15) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Animals which are kept in the pound shall be humanely treated and fed. The
city shall work with the County Animal Control Warden who shall be in charge of
the impounded animals.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83)
§ 90.07 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; IMPOUNDING FEES.
   (A)   (1)   When dogs are apprehended and impounded by the County Animal
Control Warden, he shall give notice of not less than seven days to the owner,
if known. The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An
affidavit or testimony of the Warden, or his authorized agent, who mails the
notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of the notice by the owner
of that dog. In case the owner of any impounded dog desires to make redemption
thereof, he or she may do so on the following conditions:
         (a)   Present proof of current rabies inoculation, and registration,
if applicable;
         (b)   Pay for the rabies inoculation of the dog, and registration, if
applicable;
         (c)   Pay the pound for the board of the dog for the period it was
impounded; and
         (d)   Pay into the Animal Control Fund an additional impoundment fee
as prescribed by the County Board as a penalty for the first offense and for
each subsequent offense.
      (2)   This shall be in addition to any other penalties invoked under this
chapter.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 8, § 10-360)
   (B)   Animals which are impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be kept in the county pound until redeemed or otherwise disposed of.
Animals shall be held for at least seven days for redemption. Any person who
seeks to redeem any impounded animal that is so impounded shall pay a fee of
$      ; a fee of $70 for the second time; and a fee of $125 for the third
redemption and a $125 redemption fee for each additional occasion during a 12-
month period.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83)
§ 90.08 INOCULATION AND TAGS.
   It shall be a violation of this section to allow any animal to be upon
public property or private property of another person, not the owner of such
animal. Every animal on public or private property, even though in compliance
with §
90.03, preceding, must have been inoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian within the preceding year, or the owner or keeper of such animal
shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMAL BITES.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of any animal which bites any
human being to keep such animal locked up in an enclosure for a period of ten
days following such bite; and to have the animal examined by a physician or
licensed veterinarian at the commencement and termination of this ten-day
period. If such animal during this period shall die or shall show signs of
illness, it shall be the duty of such owner or keeper of the animal to turn the
animal over to the County Animal Control Warden so that it can be determined
whether or not the animal had rabies.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 ANIMALS - REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is added to this code for the purpose of making
properties free from the deposits of animal excrement, buy requiring the owner
or person in control of any animal responsible for collecting and disposing of
such excrement.
   (B)   No owner or person in control of an animal shall permit the animal to
deposit fecal matter on any public right-of-way or property, other than that of
the owner of person in control, without providing a means of disposing of the
fecal matter. The owner or person in control of an animal shall immediately
remove any fecal matter. The owner or person in control of an animal shall
immediately remove any fecal matte deposited on any property, other than the
property belonging to the owner or person in control of the animal. This
section shall not apply to support dogs or guide dogs for the blind, visually
handicapped, hearing impaired or otherwise physically disabled persons.
   (C)   The offense specified in this section shall be an absolute liability
offense and any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-6-98)
§ 90.11 KEEPING ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOMESTICATED PETS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this chapter or in the
this Code of Ordinances as amended, no person shall keep, harbor or allow to be
kept any animal, except domesticated cats, dogs, fish or birds within a home,
within an area zoned residential, commercial or industrial in the city.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain more than 12 mature rabbits in any
residential area and no pen, hutch or other structure designed to confine or
shelter a rabbit or rabbits shall be so located that any portion of such pen,
hutch or other structure is closer than 50 feet from the adjoining property.
   (C)   No person shall keep or maintain more than six fowl or poultry, or
birds in any residential area within the corporate limits of the city. Any
fowl, poultry or birds must be contained in a pen or structure designed to
confine or shelter fowl, poultry or birds within the rear yard of a residence.
Domesticated birds may be kept in the home.
   (D)   No person shall keep or maintain any wild animal, poisonous reptile,
or other animal normally wild and dangerous to human life.
   (E)   It is no defense to a violation of this section that the owner or
keeper of the animal has attempted to domesticate the animal.
   (F)   (1)   Any person(s) who maintains fowl or poultry in a residential
area shall consent to periodic inspections of a structure or pen used for
purpose of keeping poultry or fowl to allow a reasonable inspection of the pen
or structure.
      (2)   Any person(s) who does not consent to an inspection shall be deemed
in noncompliance and subject to penalties as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 738, passed 6-5-00; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-20-09; Am. Ord. 950, passed 5-
4-15) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 KEEPING OF BEES AND INCONVENIENCES TO OTHERS.
   No person shall keep or maintain bees or any animal in any residential area
in the city in such a manner as to cause inconvenience or disturbance to other
persons by reason of the swarming or stinging of the bees or by which is
maintained in such a manner to cause inconvenience or disturbance to other
persons by reason of noise, odor or other cause.
(Ord. 738, passed 6-5-00) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 KEEPING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall keep or maintain more than four adult dogs and/or adult cats
on or about his or her place of residence.
(Ord. 738, passed 6-5-00) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 PROHIBITED AT LARGE; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The running at large of any animal within the corporate limits of the
city is hereby declared a nuisance and is prohibited.
   (B)   Any animal shall be in control or leashed by the owner at all times.
(Ord. 738, passed 6-5-00) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each such offense.
(Ord. 504, passed 1-3-83; Am. Ord. 947, passed 4-6-15; Am. Ord. 971, passed 12-
17-16)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Enactment
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Maintaining public nuisance prohibited
Conditions of Public Nuisance
   
91.15   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.16   Public nuisances offending morals and decency
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.18   Open burning
   
91.19   Permitting or depositing garbage or debris on property
Weeds
   
91.30   Permitting weeds to grow prohibited; nuisance
   
91.31   Height
   
91.32   Notice to remove; abatement
Abandoned Vehicles
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Abandonment of vehicles
   
91.47   Removal of abandoned, unattended or inoperable vehicles
   
91.48   Inoperable motor vehicles
Abatement Procedure
   
91.60   Inspection of premises
   
91.61   Summary abatement
   
91.62   Abatement by court action
   
91.63   Cost of abatement
Criminal Public Nuisance Properties
   
91.75   Declaration of public nuisance
   
91.76   Prohibition of criminal public nuisance- abatement
   
91.77   Definitions
   
91.78   Pre-abatement procedure
   
91.79   Judicial abatement procedure
   
91.80   Abatement ready- penalty
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Notice of Intent to Tow Vehicle
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ENACTMENT.
   There is enacted for the public health, welfare and safety, the following
nuisance regulations.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.03 MAINTAINING PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the city limits.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
91.99
CONDITIONS OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but shall not be construed
to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition of §
91.02:
   (A)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public.
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death.
   (C)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material in which
flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed, or
which constitute a fire hazard.
   (D)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply.
   (E)   Garbage cans that are not fly- tight.
   (F)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the city limits in such quantities as to endanger
the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause
substantial injury to property.
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances.
   (H)   Any use of property, substances or things within the city emitting or
causing any foul, offensive, noisesome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable
odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of
any appreciable number of persons within the city;
   (I)   Any barn, stable, yard, shed, pen or other place where animals or fowl
are kept which is not maintained in a clean condition; or any animals or fowl
which because of disease, unsanitary conditions, odor or noise, discomfort or
injure the health or well being of residents of the city.
   (J)   All abandoned wells or cisterns not securely covered or secured from
public use.
   (K)   All noxious weeds defined by Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 18, or in this
chapter.
   (L)   Any place harboring vermin and/or rodents.
   (M)   To allow abandoned refrigerators/freezers to remain on any premises
that does not have the door, lock or latches removed.
   (N)   To allow any building, mobile home, shed, fence or other man-made
structure to exist which is dangerous to public health because of its
condition, construction or lack of proper repair and which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease or injury to the health of its occupants and/or
neighboring structures and occupants.
   (O)   To allow excessive amounts of manure, refuse, human or noxious or
offensive waste to accumulate.
   (P)   To allow diseased animals to run at large.
   (Q)   To allow wells, cisterns, and root cellars to remain open.
   (R)   To allow the carcasses of dead animals and vermin or any part of
decaying animal matter to remain not buried, destroyed or collected within 24
hours after death or dismemberment.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87; Am. Ord. 937, passed 7-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of §
91.02:
   (A)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse or gambling.
   (B)   All gambling devices and slot machines.
   (C)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages are
sold, possessed stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without a
permit or license as provided for by this code or by state statute.
   (D)   Any place or premises within the city where city ordinances or state
laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are openly,
continuously, repeatedly and intentionally violated.
   (E)   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of laws of the
state, this code or any other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby
declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such
enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public
peace or safety coming within the provisions of §
91.02:
   (A)   All buildings erected, repaired, or altered within the fire limits of
the city in violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating
to materials and manner of construction of buildings and structures within that
district.
   (B)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic-controls devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing.
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
   (D)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the surface of
a public street.
   (E)   Any use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of the
state and ordinances of the city.
   (F)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human use.
   (G)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground.
   (H)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind.
   (I)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
city or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept or
maintained for unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has been
accomplished.
   (J)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk.
   (K)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and other
covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a device for
opening from the inside by pushing with the strength of a small child.
   (L)   Any structure, material or condition which constitutes a fire hazard
or will impair extinguishing a fire.
   (M)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley, or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks.
   (N)   Any nuisance described in the state statutes.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow opening burning of any combustible
material except landscape waste, including vegetable or plant refuse, tree
branches, brush, leaves and similar material, conduct any salvage operation by
open burning, or cause or allow the open burning of any combustible material in
any chamber not specifically designed for the purpose and approved of by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, pursuant to regulations adopted by
the Illinois Pollution Control Board, except that it shall be lawful for any
person to set fire to, ignite or burn any combustible material in any outdoor
fireplace, grill, or barbeque pit if:
      (1)   That fire is used for the purpose of cooking food;
      (2)   That fire is kept under competent and continuous supervision;
      (3)   All flammable and combustible material is removed a sufficient
distance from the fireplace, grill, or barbeque pit so as not constitute a fire
hazard;
      (4)   All such burning is a sufficient distance from other residents and
properties so as not to be a nuisance, constitute a fire hazard or impair the
breathing of free air to adjacent persons or property owners; and
      (5)   All fires and coals in the fireplace grill, or barbeque pit have
thoroughly extinguished after the use thereof has been completed.
   (B)   OPEN BURNING is defined as the combustion of any matter in the open or
in an open dump.
   (C)   This section shall incorporate, and not be in conflict with, the
relevant provisions of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5). Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to supersede any
applicable provision of state law.
   (D)   The open burning of landscape shall be allowed upon the premises where
it is produced between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday
in the months of January, February, March, April, May, June, September,
October, November and December, provided that:
      (1)   Such burning is kept under competent and continuous supervision;
      (2)   Such burning is a sufficient distance from the other residents and
properties so as not to be a nuisance, constitute a fire hazard or impair the
breathing of free air to adjacent persons or property owners;
      (3)   Such burning is not allowed on paved city streets or alley; and
      (4)   Such fires are thoroughly extinguished after the use thereof has
been completed.
   (E)   Upon approval by the City Manager, employees of the city may cause or
allow the open burning of landscape waste on city owned or controlled property,
including material produced off the premises, on days when burning of such
material would otherwise be prohibited under this section.
   (F)   When special circumstances exist, the City Council may, by resolution
and for a specified and limited amount of time, allow for the open burning of
such material would otherwise be allowed under this section.
(Ord. 978, passed 4-17-17)
§ 91.19 PERMITTING OR DEPOSITING GARBAGE OR DEBRIS ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall permit rubbish, trash, garbage, or other debris to remain on
their property when, by so doing, same becomes a nuisance, or hazard to the
enjoyment of other citizens of this city of their property or their life. No
person shall deposit any garbage or other debris on the property of others, nor
shall it be burned in the city.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS
§ 91.30 PERMITTING WEEDS TO GROW PROHIBITED; NUISANCE.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr or other
weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the city, any such weeds, grass or plants
exceeding the height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87; Am. Ord. 1066, passed 5-3-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 NOTICE TO REMOVE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police to serve or cause to be served a notice
upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds, grass or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this section and to demand
the abatement of the nuisance within ten days and if not thus abated to
institute abatement as in this chapter provided.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle on any public place for a period of
time which the engine, wheels, windshield, rear window, doors or other parts
have been removed, or in which the engine, wheels, windshield, rewa window,
doors or other parts have been altered, damaged, wrecked, dismantled,
deteriorated, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being
safely driven under its own motor power, or does not display a current, valid
registration or on any property in view of the general public for a period of
seven days or more, for which the engine, wheels, windshield, rear window,
doors, or other parts have been altered, damaged, wrecked, dismantled,
deteriorated, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being
safely driven under its own motor power, or does not display a current, valid
registration; provide, that this definition shall not be construed to include
any motorvehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own power in order to perform ordinary services or repair operations
by a person engaged in a business of performing such ordinance services or
repairs and the vehicle is located on the property where the business is
located, nor to any motor vehicle that is kept entirely within a building when
not in use or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a duly licensed place of
business engaged in towing, repairing, wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   PROPERTY. Any private property within the city which is not a street,
highway or alley and which is not owned by the city.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned by the city including any property
leased to the city.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel. This shall include all of the right-of-way
owned by the municipality in any thoroughfare, street, highway or alley.
   VEHICLE. All motor vehicles and trailers, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, travel trailers, campers, motor homes, tent trailers,
boats, boat trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers, and camping trailers.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used herein shall be defined as the
definition for that word as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1 et seq., (as
amended).
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87; Am. Ord. 653, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 884, passed 4-
18-11)
§ 91.46 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part thereof on any street,
highway, alley or other public way or public property in this municipality is
unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth herein. Any police authority of
the city or acting on behalf of the city or any member of any such police
authority’s force or department is hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from a
street, highway, alley, or other public thoroughfare or public property, to the
nearest garage or other place of safety or to the garage designated or
maintained by the city under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge viaduct or
causeway, where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway, street or alley is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
      (3)   When any vehicle is left abandoned or unattended upon a street,
highway, other public thoroughfare or alley, and is so parked illegally as to
constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic.
      (4)   When any vehicle is left abandoned or unattended upon public
property for over 24 hours.
      (5)   Immediate removal from the street or highway, or private property
adjacent to the highway when any vehicle left abandoned, unattended, wrecked,
burned or partially dismantled is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to a street or highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause such vehicle to reasonably appear abandoned.
Further, no person shall leave any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway or other public property. Any vehicle
so left may be removed by the city through its lawful police force or by any
police force acting on behalf of the city whenever any such vehicle is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic or is left unattended for over 24 hours.
   (C)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private property
in view of the general public is unlawful except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle or any part thereof. A vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property shall be authorized for removal by any
police authority of the city or acting on behalf of the city after a waiting
period of seven days from the time the abandoned vehicle or any part thereof
was first made known to the police authority.
   (D)   No person shall leave any inoperable motor vehicle on private property
for a period longer that seven days unless such inoperable vehicle is kept
within a building when not in use, is a historic or antique vehicle as such
vehicles are defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102.1, (as amended), or such
vehicle is on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles and such business is duly licensed by the state and
city, if applicable, to engage in such business. Any vehicle so left, whether
on public or private, property, is declared a public nuisance. Any police
authority of the city or acting on behalf of the city seven days after the
existence and location of the inoperable motor vehicle has been brought to the
police authority’s attention, may serve notice upon the owner or occupant of
the property upon which the inoperable motor vehicle is located to remove and
dispose of said vehicle. If the inoperable motor vehicle is not removed within
seven days after receiving notice by certified mail, or service of process as
provided by law, the property owner, or occupant, or both, will be responsible
for all towing charges, storage charges, court costs and attorney fees,
incurred by the city and shall be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter
and may be fined by a court of competent jurisdiction for failure to obey the
notice and dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter and remedies provided herein are
cumulative with and non-exclusive in accordance with the applicable provisions
of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87; Am. Ord. 653, passed 9-5-95) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, UNATTENDED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   The city police, or any police authority acting on behalf of the city
to enforce this subchapter, is hereby authorized to remove any abandoned,
unattended or inoperable vehicle in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter. The police authority authorizing the towing shall keep and maintain
a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture,
manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle
identification number, license plate year and number and registration sticker
year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the
date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for
towing, and the name of the police authority authorizing the tow. If the
vehicle is removed from private property, the police authority authorizing the
tow shall provide a written notice and serve same on the occupant of the real
estate premises upon which the vehicle is located, if there is an occupant or
any appearance that the premises may be occupied or in the event that the
premises do not indicate occupation by a person, the policy authority shall
post on the real estate premises the aforesaid notice, this notice to be served
or posted at least 24 hours in advance of the removal of the vehicle. If, after
notification, that vehicle has not been removed or placed within a lawful
enclosure, the police authority may authorize the removal of the vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place provided by the city for the storage and
safekeeping of those vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever any police authority removes a vehicle from a street,
highway, alley or other public way as authorized in this subchapter and the
policy authority knows or is able to ascertain from the registration records in
the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof, the police authority
shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to the owner of
the fact of the removal and the reasons therefor and the place to which the
vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a public
garage, a copy of that notice shall be sent to the proprietor of such garage.
   (C)   Whenever any police authority removes a vehicle from a street,
highway, alley or other public way, and does not know and is not able to
ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the
notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is
not returned to the owner within a period of three days, then and in that event
the police authority shall immediately send or cause to be sent a written
report of the removal by mail to the agency or department of the state whose
duty it is to register motor vehicles and shall file a copy of the notice with
the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. This
notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time and
place from which removed, the reason for such removal, and the name of the
garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   Vehicles not claimed by the owner thereof may be disposed of after the
time and in the manner as set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208, (as
amended).
   (E)   All costs of towing and storing a vehicle under the provisions of this
subchapter will be paid by the owner or by sale of the vehicle in accordance
with the applicable laws providing for that sale.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.48 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1, the City
Council may by ordinance declare all inoperable motor vehicles, whether on
public or private property and in view of the general public, to be a nuisance
and authorize fines to be levied for the failure of any person to obey a notice
received from the city which states that such person is to dispose of any
inoperable motor vehicles under his control, and may authorize any police
authority of the city or acting on behalf of the city or any member of any
police authority’s force or department, with applicable jurisdiction, to
remove, after seven days from the issuance of the municipal notice, any
inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof. However, nothing in this section
shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in
use, to operable historic vehicles over 25 years of age or to a motor vehicle
on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of
motor vehicles.
   (B)   As used in this section, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days or any greater period
fixed by ordinance, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3)
ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 91.60 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Whenever complaint is made that a public nuisance exists, or has existed,
within the city, the Mayor or some other city official whom the Mayor shall
designate shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and
shall make a written report of his findings. Whenever practicable, the
inspecting officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall
file the same in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.61 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to owner. If the Mayor, based on the report of the inspecting
officer, shall determine that a public nuisance exists on private property and
that there is great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace,
morals or decency, the Mayor may direct the police, or a deputy sheriff, to
serve a notice on the owner, or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant
or person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance and to post a copy
of the notice on the premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or
persons causing, permitting or maintaining a nuisance to abate or remove the
nuisance within 24 hours and shall state that unless the nuisance is so abated,
the city will cause the same to be abated and will charge the cost thereof to
the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the same, as
the case may be.
   (B)   Abatement by the city. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Mayor, Police, or the Building Inspector, or some other city
official whom the Mayor shall designate, shall cause the abatement or removal
of such public nuisance.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.62 ABATEMENT BY COURT ACTION.
   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists on
private premises, but that the nature of the nuisance is not such as to
threaten great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals
or decency, he shall file a written report of his finds with the Mayor, who
shall cause an action to abate the nuisance to be commenced in the name of the
city.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
§ 91.63 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed for the erection, contrivance,
creation, continuance or maintenance of a public nuisance, the cost of abating
a public nuisance by the city shall be collected as a debt from the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance, and if
notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, such cost shall be
assessed against the real estate as other special taxes.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
§ 91.75 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any property at, in or upon which three or more of the offenses described in
§
91.77(A) have occurred within a one-year period is declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24)
§ 91.76 PROHIBITION OF CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE- ABATEMENT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently permit
any property within the corporate limits of the city to become, exist as or be
used as a criminal public nuisance property, and any owner of a criminal public
nuisance property found to exist within the city shall be subject to the
abatement procedures and penalties of Chapter 91 of the Farmer City Code.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 91.77 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, when used in
Chapter 91, have the meanings set forth below:
   CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Any property at, in, or upon which one or
more of the offenses set forth below, have occurred or have been alleged to
have occurred, on three or more occasions within any one year period, as
determined by authorized sworn personnel of the City Police Department or by
any authorized members of a law enforcement agency lawfully exercising
jurisdiction within the city.
      (1)   The criminal offenses which may be considered in determining
whether or not a property is a criminal public nuisance property shall be as
follows below:
         (a)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 9 (Homicide) of
the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 9-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
State of Illinois;
         (b)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 10 (Kidnapping and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 702, Act 5, §§ 10-1 et
seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a
public record of the State of Illinois;
         (c)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the following provisions
of the Criminal Code of 2012: Article 11, Subdivision 15 (Prostitution
Offenses), ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-14 et seq., Article 11, Subdivision 20
(Pornography Offenses), ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-20 et seq., or Section 11-21
(Harmful Material) ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-21 et seq., as any of the
statutes referenced in this division are now in effect or hereafter amended or
codified, the same being public records of the State of Illinois;
         (d)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 12 (Bodily Harm)
of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
State of Illinois;
         (e)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 16 (Theft and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-1 et
seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a
public record of the State of Illinois;
         (f)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Section 20-2 (Possession
of Explosives or Explosive or Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 2012,
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 20-2 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or
codified, the same being a public record of the State of Illinois;
         (g)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 24 (Deadly
Weapons) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.,
together with any violation of § 6-12 of the City Code of Ordinances (discharge
of firearms within the municipal limits of the city), as any of the statutes
and ordinances referenced in this division are now in effect or hereafter
amended or codified, the same being public records of the State of Illinois;
         (h)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 25 (Mob Action) of
the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 25-1 et seq., as now in
effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the
State of Illinois;
         (i)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 26-1 (Disorderly
Conduct) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 26-1 et seq., as
now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record
of the State of Illinois;
         (j)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 28 (Gambling and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et
seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a
public record of the State of Illinois;
         (k)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 31 (Interference
with Public Officers) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 31-
1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a
public record of the State of Illinois;
         (l)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Section 6-16 (Prohibited
Sales and Possession) or Section 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of Liquor
by Persons Under Age 21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, ILCS Ch. 235, Act
5, §§ 6-16 and 5/6-20, as any of the statutes referenced in this division are
now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being public records
of the State of Illinois;
         (m)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq., as now in effect or
hereafter amended or codified, the same being a public record of the State of
Illinois;
         (n)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act,
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or
codified, the same being a public record of the State of Illinois; or
         (o)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Article 8
(Inchoate Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 8-
1 et seq., as now in effect or hereafter amended or codified, the same being a
public record of the State of Illinois, which is relative to the commission of
any of the aforesaid principal offenses.
      (2)   This chapter shall not be enforced in such a manner that penalizes
tenants or landlords based on:
         (a)   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if (i) the
contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to domestic violence or
sexual violence; (ii) the intervention or emergency assistance was needed to
respond to or prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or (iii) the
contact was made by, on behalf of, or otherwise concerns an individual with a
disability as defined in Section 1-2-l.5(a) of the Illinois Municipal Code,
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.5 (as now in effect or hereafter amended or
codified, the same being a public record of the State of Illinois) and the
purpose of the contact was related to that individual's disability;
         (b)   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic
violence or sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest
occurring in the dwelling unit or on the premises; or
         (c)   Criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in
the dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly relating to domestic
violence or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant's
household, guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member,
guest, or other party.
   OCCUPANT. Any person in actual or constructive possession of any real
property within the corporate limits of the city, or any of the buildings,
structures, fixtures, or improvements located thereon.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in a criminal public
nuisance property or any person who has the ability, authority, or right to
regulate, restrain, control, direct, or affect the conduct of persons present
upon a criminal public nuisance property.
   PERMIT. To allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in, agree to, suffer, or
fail to prevent.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, unincorporated association, land trust, or any other group,
enterprise, or entity.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, together with any buildings, structures,
improvements, or fixtures located thereon or affixed thereto, located within
the city.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 91.78 PRE-ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the Chief of the City Police Department (Chief) shall receive a
certified copy of two or more court adjudications or two or more police reports
generated in the ordinary course of the business of the Police Department, or
any reports from sworn personnel of any other law enforcement agency lawfully
exercising jurisdiction in the city, which describe the commission of any two
or more of the offenses set forth in §
91.77 upon the same property, the Chief may take the following action:
   (A)   Notify by registered mail, return receipt request or by personal
service, the owners or any occupant of the property that such property may be
in danger of becoming a criminal public nuisance property under the provisions
of §
91.75 et seq. of the Farmer City Code, which notice shall:
      (1)   Identify the property by either street address, DeWitt County
Assessor property identification number or legal description;
      (2)   Describe the acts or conduct which have occurred on the property
that could be the basis for determining that the property constitutes a
criminal public nuisance property; and
      (3)   Direct the owner or occupant contact the chief within 14 days of
the date of the letter to determine and implement a plan of action which will
protect the property from becoming a criminal public nuisance property.
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedure set forth in division
(A) above, if within 12 months of the notification issued in accordance with
division (A) the Chief receives an additional certified copy of a court
adjudication or police report describing the commission of one or more of the
offenses set forth in §
91.77 upon the property described in the division (A) above notice, the Chief
may by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, and
in addition to either of the foregoing, by posting on the property itself,
provide the owner and/or occupant of the property with a second notice, which
notice shall inform the owner and/or occupant that the property is a criminal
public nuisance property describing all acts and conduct forming the basis for
the determination and direct the owner or occupant to contact the chief within
14 days of the date of the §
91.77 notice to determine and implement a plan of action which will result in
the abatement of the property as a criminal public nuisance property.
   (C)   Proof that the notices required under this section were sent or given
in the manner required hereunder shall be deemed proof that the owner or
occupant of the property received such notices.
   (D)   Any statement made by an owner or occupant pursuant to the pre-
abatement procedure will not be admissible as evidence in any proceeding under
this chapter.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24)
§ 91.79 JUDICIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the event that neither the owner nor the occupant of the property
complies with §
91.78(A) or (B), the Chief of Police shall notify the City Attorney to initiate
judicial proceedings in the Circuit Court of DeWitt County, Illinois, to abate
the criminal public nuisance, and to seek the penalties and remedies set forth
in §
91.80.
   (B)   The owner and any occupant are responsible for any reasonable legal
and other expenses incurred by the city in the abatement proceedings authorized
hereunder.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24)
§ 91.80 ABATEMENT REMEDY- PENALTY.
   In any proceeding instituted under §
91.79, the court shall, in addition to any other powers granted by the
provisions of this code or applicable law, have the power to enter an order
restraining the owner and occupant from using the property for one or more
specified purposes for a period of not more than one year, which order may
further provide that the owner or occupant shall post a bond or other security
payable to the city and approved by the court in an amount between $1,000 and
$5,000, which bond or security shall be forfeited over to the city by the
obligor thereof in the event that an offense set forth in §
91.76 is committed upon the property within the period of time set forth by the
court.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to the abatement
provisions set forth in this chapter, and in addition thereto shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $500 with each day that the
provisions of this chapter are violated constituting a separating offense.
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
   (B)   Any person who violates or aids or abets in the violation of §
91.46(A) is guilty of a petty offense, and :
      (1)   Shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $100; and
      (2)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing and storage charges pursuant
to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4- 203(a) and (e).
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-214(a)(2))
   (C)   Any owner or occupant of any property who intentionally, knowingly,
recklessly or negligently permitted such property to become, be used, as or
exist as a criminal public nuisance property shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $750 per day for each day on which such property was used as or
existed as a criminal public nuisance property.
(Ord. 1130, passed 11-4-24)
APPENDIX: NOTICE OF INTENT TO TOW VEHICLE
CITY OF FARMER CITY, ILLINOIS,
POLICE DEPARTMENT
NOTICE OF INTENT TO TOW VEHICLE
To:
                                                                               
   Name
                                                                               
   Address
                                                                                  
   City, State, Zip
   YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the City of Farmer City, Illinois, intends to
remove the following vehicle registered in your name, and which has been
abandoned on municipal property:
                                                                           
      Make            Model         Year
                                                                           
      License Tag            Serial Number
   The City of Farmer City, Illinois, has determined that this vehicle is
abandoned based on the following facts*:
   A.   Said vehicle is in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable
of being driven in its condition.
   B.   Said vehicle has not been moved or used for seven consecutive days or
more and is apparently deserted.
   C.   Said vehicle displays no valid registration rendering the vehicle
incapable of being legally operated.
*Strike inapplicable paragraph.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that a hearing has been scheduled for the     day
of       , 19  , at      a.m./p.m. before Chief of Police, City of Farmer City
Police Department, Farmer City, Illinois at the Farmer City Police Station
located at City Hall, Main Street, Farmer City, Illinois 61842. At said
hearing, facts concerning the abandonment of said vehicle will be presented.
You may be present at this hearing to present evidence.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that at the conclusion of said hearing, if it is
determined that the vehicle in question will be removed by the City of Farmer
City, Illinois, you shall be responsible for towing and storage fees, in
addition to any fine resulting from said abandonment.
                                                              
                  Chief of Police
                  Farmer City, Illinois
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF DeWITT      )
I hereby certify that a copy of the above and foregoing Notice was*:
   1.   Personally served to all persons to whom the Notice is directed
   2.   Mailed by certified mail to all persons to whom the Notice is directed
   3.   Posted as provided in this form *(strike out inapplicable provisions)
*Strike inapplicable paragraph.
                                                              
me this day of               , 19    .
                                                             
Notary Public
(Ord. 533, passed 4-20-87)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Construction of public sidewalks; petition and payment
   
92.02   Maintenance of trees, bushes and similar growths on public rights-of-
way
Snowmobile Routes
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Snowmobile route designations
   
92.17   Application; jurisdiction
   
92.18   Enforcement; inspection
Street Names and Address Numbering System
   
92.30   Purpose
   
92.31   Street address map, street name index
   
92.32   Centerlines
   
92.33   Street names
   
92.34   Names and spelling given to streets
   
92.35   Methods for determining address numbers
   
92.36   Name and number assignment review, approval
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS; PETITION AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Public sidewalks may be constructed upon petition signed by the owner
or owners of real property abutting the line of the proposed sidewalk according
to the provisions of this section and the rules and regulations of the Street
and Alley Committee of the City Council.
   (B)   The petition for a public sidewalk shall contain the name and address
of each real property owner, the amount of frontage on the same and shall
stipulate that the property owner or owners will pay one-third of the total
cost of the proposed sidewalk along his, her or its property. The property
owner shall pay to the city at the time the petition is presented, his, her or
its one-third share of the estimated cost of the sidewalk.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed by the city by contract or by
special agreement between the city and the property owner according to the
following specifications. The concrete shall be made of the following materials
or equivalents:
      (1)   The sidewalk and driveway approach shall be constructed of Class
“X” concrete, which will be in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Section 118.2 of the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
of the State of Illinois, Division of Highways,” and as these specifications
might from time-to-time be amended.
      (2)   The contractor shall not add water to the concrete surface once the
concrete is poured, as a means of smoothing the surface, but shall ensure that
the smoothing takes place immediately after the pour.
      (3)   When the average daily temperature is below 50°F., the newly laid
concrete shall be protected with a layer of loose dry straw, which shall remain
in place for ten days. When the minimum temperature is below 35°F., at any time
during the first five days of the curing period, not less than 12 inches of
loose, dry straw shall be placed immediately as a protection and shall remain
on the pavement for ten days.
      (4)   Concrete should be poured no less than three-inch slump nor more
than five- inch slump.
      (5)   Walks should be no less than four feet wide and shall be of a
minimum thickness of four inches except at street or alley crossings and at
driveways where the thickness shall be increased to a minimum of six inches.
      (6)   Walks should be scored or sawed at least each six lineal feet.
      (7)   Concrete should be protected from sun, wind and rain for no less
than seven days to allow for proper curing.
      (8)   The finished surface shall not be left smooth, but at least light
broomed or brush finished.
      (9)   Concrete should not be poured on frozen subbase or when freezing
temperatures are expected unless properly protected. Subbase should be of fill
sand or gravel compacted.
      (10)   All work must be done in a workmanlike manner.
   (D)   The city shall have full power, right and authority to remove any
obstruction to the proper construction of any sidewalk to be built pursuant to
this section.
(Ord. 419, passed 7-16-73; Am. Ord. 602, passed 7-6-92) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 MAINTENANCE OF TREES, BUSHES AND SIMILAR GROWTHS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   The city requires the adjacent private property owner to maintain in
satisfactory condition, or remove if in poor or dead condition, all trees,
bushes, shrubs, hedges and other similar growth which occurs on private
property but within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The city reserves for itself only that maintenance, cutting, removal
or similar activities involving trees, bushes, shrubs, hedges or other similar
growth on private property but within the public right-of-way to the extent
that it is necessary for the efficient and safe movement of vehicles,
pedestrians and other legally authorized means of transport on that right-of-
way, and for construction and repair of facilities.
(Ord. 576, passed 7-15-91) Penalty, see §
92.99
SNOWMOBILE ROUTES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the words and phrases used herein shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them under the Illinois Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, § 1-1, et seq., as
thereafter amended.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-18-80)
§ 92.16 SNOWMOBILE ROUTE DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the corporate
limits of the city, except upon property owned by or upon which the owner has
given express permission for such operation to the operator of that snowmobile,
or upon the portions of the streets designated in a map of the city entitled
“Snowmobile Route,” adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter,
which delineates certain streets as permissible for snowmobile traffic within
the city limits, or upon any street which affords the most direct or safest
course to the snowmobile route to or from the point where the snowmobile is
housed, or to and from the point of entry or exit of the snowmobile to or from
the city limits.
   (B)   The streets designated on the snowmobile route map as the east-west
snowmobile route are as follows:
      (1)   High Street between the west city limits and Walnut Street;
      (2)   Walnut Street between East High Street and East Richardson Street;
and
      (3)   East Richardson Street between Walnut Street and the east city
limits.
   (C)   The street designated on the snowmobile route map as the north-south
snowmobile route are as follows:
      (1)   Lincoln Street between the south city limits and East High Street;
      (2)   East and West High Street between Lincoln Street North William
Street;
      (3)   North William Street between West High Street and Van Buren Street
lying west of the Peoria and Eastern Railroad right-of-way;
      (4)   Van Buren Street between the Peoria and Eastern Railroad right-of-
way and North John Street;
      (5)   North John Street between West Van Buren Street and the north city
limits;
      (6)   That portion of the township road along the north side of section
28, township 21 north, range 5 east of the Third Principal Meridian, Santa Anna
Township, DeWitt County, Illinois, between North John Street and the west city
limits;
      (7)   Woodward Street between South Lincoln Street and Olive Street;
      (8)   Olive Street between Woodward Street and the west end of Olive
Street; and
      (9)   The north and south alley between the west end of Olive Street and
West Clinton Avenue.
   (D)   Any person who must deviate from the provisions of this subchapter
because of an emergency involving danger to human life or health or property
shall inform the police of this deviation and the reason why the deviation was
necessary.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-18-80) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 APPLICATION; JURISDICTION.
   No portion of this subchapter shall preclude the state or its officers or
agents from enforcing the Illinois Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 through 12-1, and all amendments hereafter made.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-18-80)
§ 92.18 ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It is the duty of police officers to arrest any person detected in
violation of any provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any snowmobile at
any time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this subchapter
are being complied with. Every snowmobile upon being halted by an officer of
law enforcement must stop immediately.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any peace officer
in discharging his duties under this subchapter.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-18-80) Penalty, see §
92.99
STREET NAMES AND ADDRESS
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 92.30 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes a system for assigning street names and address
numbers which will help the public and private sector in locating individual
streets, buildings and places in an easy and logical manner and assist in the
protection of public health and safety of all persons living, working or
visiting in the city.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.31 STREET ADDRESS MAP, STREET NAME INDEX.
   The official street address map is a part of this subchapter and is
incorporated herein by reference. The map shall identify all named streets,
numbering centerlines and block numbering grids which specify address number
ranges. A typical section of land shall be divided into grids, north/south and
east/west. Each grid interval shall be 320 feet, except in nonstandard grids
identified on the map. Street names appear in §
92.34.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.32 CENTERLINES.
   Market Street and its extension to the city’s east and west planning area
boundaries shall be the centerline street for north and south address numbers.
Main Street and its extension shall be the east and west centerline for east
and west numbering.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.33 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Street. For the purposes of this subchapter, the words “street,”
“avenue,” or “road” shall mean all roadways, public and private, open for
general public travel. Access drives to apartment and commercial complexes
shall not be considered as streets and shall not be named as such.
   (B)   Cul-de-sac. Cul-de-sac streets which have only one entrance/exit shall
not be called “avenue” or “street,” but shall have a suffix name such as
“lane,” “place” or “terrace” to indicate their dead-end nature.
   (C)   Loop streets. Loop streets are circular or rectangular streets which
begin at one point and end at another point along a common street and do not
connect to any other streets. The street name suffixes on these streets must
not be “street”, “avenue,” or “road” but shall be “loop,” “circle,” “court” or
other name indicating a closed street layout.
   (D)   Street name index. An official street name index shall be maintained,
which shall list every named street on the map with an alphanumeric reference
to assist users in locating streets on the map.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.34 NAMES AND SPELLING GIVEN TO STREETS.
Street Name
Allen Street
Bluebell Lane
Brookview Drive
Bullard Street
Center Street
Chestnut Road
Clinton Avenue/Illinois 54
Crabtree Court
Depot Road
Dodge Street
Elm Street
Franklin Street
George Rock Drive
Green Street
Grove Street/U.S. 150
Hallam Street
Harrison Street
Haynie Street
High Street
Honeysuckle Lane
Indiana Street
Jackson Street
James Street
John Street
Lincoln Street
Linden Court
Madison Street
Main Street
Maple Street
Market Street
Monroe Street
Mt. Pleasant
Municipal Drive
Murphy Drive
North Street
Oak Lane
Ogle Street
Olive Street
Plum Street
Ponderosa Lane
Richardson Street
Service Way
South Drive
State Street
Stensel Drive
Summer Drive
Thomas Street
Van Buren Street
Walnut Street
Washington Street
West Street
Western Avenue
William Street
Woodward Avenue
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.35 METHODS FOR DETERMINING ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Odd, even numbering. Address numbers shall be even on the right side
of the street and odd on the left side of the street as one faces east or west
from Main Street or north or south from Market Street. One hundred numbers
shall be assigned to each identified grid block, with the lowest number
beginning at a point nearest the grid centerline. Address numbers shall be
determined by the number grid in which the property is located. Typical block
numbering system using 1200 block west of Main Street with a new number every
40 feet.
South side (left) North side (right)
South side (left) North side (right)
1205              1200
1215              1210
1225              1220
1235              1230
1245              1240
1255              1250
1265              1260
1275              1270
1285              1280
1295              1290
 
   (B)   Diagonal and curving streets. Diagonal streets which run 45 degrees or
less from a north/south line will be numbered by the north/south grid and those
more than 45 degrees from the north/south line will be numbered by the east/
west grid. Curving streets will be assigned numbers based upon the grid of
their greatest length. For instance, if the beginning is more south than west
of the end, then the north/south grid will be used.
   (C)   Loop streets and cul-de-sac. On loop streets and cul-de-sac streets,
address numbering shall begin at the entrance nearest the grid centerline and
increase to the opposite end as if the street were in a straight line. Block
number changes will be made every 330 feet with odd and even numbers remaining
on the same side of the street as they began.
   (D)   Apartments.
      (1)   Apartment buildings on public streets or private drives shall be
assigned individual addresses. Apartments clustered about a central parking
area immediately facing a public street shall also be assigned separate street
addresses.
      (2)   When apartments are arranged along a private street, addresses can
be assigned from this private street. A sign showing the apartment complex
name, with the street address below it, must be posted at the entrance. In
these instances a central postal facility for all apartments must be located so
it is readily accessible to a mail carrier from the public street serving the
complex.
      (3)   Each apartment must be identified on the exterior entrance by
number or building letter and number for multiple buildings. The numbers shalt
be in sequence: 1, 2, 3, etc. Apartments in lettered buildings shall have the
building letter as part of each apartment number, such as B-210. When units are
on multiple floors, ground floor numbers shall be in the 100 series (101, 102,
103), second floor in the 200 series (201, 202, 203), etc. If a common hallway
is used for several apartments, the external hallway entrance to each apartment
shall contain a list of the apartments served. When addressing townhouses and
other buildings containing units separately owned, each address shall be placed
on the principal external entryway to the unit.
      (4)   The official address for each apartment shall be the building
address followed by the apartment number, for example, “329 Park Street, Apt.
8". Addresses for units in apartment buildings not on a public street shall
include the public street address and the building number with the apartment
designation. The official address for each apartment will be the public street
address followed by the building letter, a dash, and the apartment number, for
example, “329 Park Street, Apt. C-104.”
   (E)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   When trailers are arranged along a private street within mobile
home parks, each private street within the mobile home park shall be named and
a sign, as required by this subchapter for other private streets, shall be
erected on each private street within the mobile home park.
      (2)   Each mobile home on such private street shall then be identified in
numerical sequence as determined by calculation within the grid box. The number
shall be placed in a conspicuous place on that part of the trailer closest to
the street, and all mobile homes within the park shall be marked in the same
location of the trailer. Address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches
high with block letters and shall be visible from the street.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.36 NAME AND NUMBER ASSIGNMENT REVIEW, APPROVAL.
   (A)   Official records maintained. Official records of address numbers shall
be maintained by the Police Department. The City Council shall have the final
authority to change any assignment upon an appeal by any affected party.
   (B)   Proposed names and changes. All proposed street names and name changes
shall be reviewed for continuity with this subchapter by the Police Chief, who
shall recommend alternative names when a proposed name duplicates or is so
similar to an existing name that confusion could hamper prompt delivery of
emergency services. Appeals of street name assignment can be made to the City
Council. The City Council shall have the final authority to change any
assignment upon an appeal by any affected party.
(Ord. 811, passed 1-24-05)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply
with any of the mandatory requirements of §§
92.15 through
92.18 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100. Each person is guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.18 is committed, continued or permitted by any such person, and he is
punishable accordingly.
      (2)   In addition to or in conjunction with the above penalty, the
registration and identification number of any snowmobile which is operated in
violation of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.18 shall be revoked and terminated upon the second such violation within the
space of one year, this revocation being for a period of one calendar year
commencing on the date of the second violation.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-18-80)
CHAPTER 93: BRUSH AND TREE LIMB REMOVAL
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.10   Schedule
   
93.20   Fees charged
   
93.30   Not to modify
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is added to the this code for the purpose of establishing
collection fees when the city collects and disposed of brush and tree limbs at
the request of private property owners within the city.
(Ord. 705, passed 12-7-98)
§ 93.10 SCHEDULE.
   Not less than once a month at a day of the week to be established by the
City Council, the employees of the city shall pick up and dispose of brush and
tree limbs neatly piled adjacent to a public street or street curb, provided
that said property owner shall first contact City Hall and request to be placed
on the list for the next brush or tree limbs collection.
(Ord. 705, passed 12-7-98)
§ 93.20 FEES CHARGED.
   The charge to the property owner per pick up shall be $20 per load or any
portion of a load gathered from the requesting property owner at any one
location. The fees so collected shall be deposited in a separate account and
used only by direction of the City Council for acquisition of brush and limb
clearing equipment.
(Ord. 705, passed 12-7-98)
§ 93.30 NOT TO MODIFY.
   This provision for collection of brush or tree limbs shall have no effect
and it is not intended to modify any provisions of the presiding ordinances
city prohibiting nuisances or prohibiting deposit of such materials so as to
interfere with sidewalk usage or traffic flow.
(Ord. 705, passed 12-7-98)
CHAPTER 94: GROUND FLOOR RESIDENCES ON MAIN STREET
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.10   Residential usage unlawful
   
94.20   Penalty; violations
   
94.30   All persons owning, occupying or renting
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is added to this code for the purpose of regulating uses of
real estate in the city business district so as to promote the safety, health
and welfare of the residents of the city and so as to provide uniform usage of
a business district.
(Ord. 720, passed 8-16-99)
§ 94.10 RESIDENTIAL USAGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or to allow occupancy for
residential usage, the front 50% of the ground floor of any building located on
Main Street between Route 54 on the south and Market Street on the north. Any
residential usage in the rear 50% of the buildings must be separated from the
front 50% with a floor to ceiling barrier wall.
(Ord. 720, passed 8-16-99; Am. Ord. 861, passed 10-5-09)
§ 94.20 PENALTY; VIOLATIONS.
   The penalty for violation of this chapter shall be fine only not to exceed
$500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 702, passed 8-16-99)
§ 94.30 ALL PERSONS OWNING, OCCUPYING OR RENTING.
   This chapter shall be binding upon all persons owning, occupying or renting
a building or any portion thereof, on Main Street.
(Ord. 720, passed 8-16-99)
CHAPTER 95: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF- WAY
Section
   
95.01   Purpose and scope
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Annual registration required
   
95.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
95.05   Action on permit applications
   
95.06   Effect of permit
   
95.07   Revised permit drawings
   
95.08   Insurance
   
95.09   Indemnification
   
95.10   Security
   
95.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
95.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
95.13   General construction standards
   
95.14   Traffic control
   
95.15   Location of facilities
   
95.16   Construction methods and materials
   
95.17   Vegetation control
   
95.18   Removal, relocation, or modification of utility facilities
   
95.19   Cleanup and restoration
   
95.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
95.21   Variances
   
95.22   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully
established before November 1, 2001 may continue to be maintained, repaired and
operated by the utility as presently constructed and located, except as may be
otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   (C)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (D)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. When a utility
other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or similar
agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar agreement shall
govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or
extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. If there is any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (E)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict is less stringent in the conflicting chapter.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. If applicable federal or state
laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the utility
shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent
possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (G)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The city of Farmer City, Illinois.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the city of Farmer City, Illinois.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   CITY MANAGER. The City of Farmer City City Manager or his or her designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment so that it does not materially obstruct
the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or near the right-of-way or immediate maintenance required
for the health and safety of the general public served by the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-
of-way under this chapter, except those owned by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life,
health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 11-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ILCC Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
95.04 and
95.05.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the
city has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location
of facilities other than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures, and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
95.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise. “telecommunications” shall also include wireless telecommunications
as defined in the Illinois Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
Act, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 635, §§ 1 et seq. TELE- COMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value-added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all tele-communications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable services through a
cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C.
Sections 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the City Clerk, providing the utility’s name,
address and regular business telephone and fax numbers, the name of one or more
contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility about emergencies
involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone
number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in §
95.08, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A telecommunications provider
that has registered under this section, shall be deemed to have satisfied the
registration requirement under §
95.02.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which changes the location of the facility, adds a new
facility, disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter), or materially
increases the area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along,
under across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an application
with the city and obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers’ premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and fax numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different from the utility,
its telephone, fax numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and fax numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ILCC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
95.08;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
95.10;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see § 95.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
Besides the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   For new electric power, communications or natural gas distribution
system installation, evidence that a certificate of public convenience and
necessity has been issued by the ILCC that the applicant is required by law, or
has elected, to obtain;
      (2)   For natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size, design,
construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   For water lines, indicate that all requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have been
satisfied;
      (4)   For sewer line installations, indicate that the land and water
pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   For petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types of
petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. No application fee is required to be paid by any
telecommunications retailer that is paying the municipal tele-communications
infrastructure maintenance fee or the optional state telecommunications
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Telecommunications Municipal
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, or by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the city within a
reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to the
requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the city shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the city is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the city shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4, a telecommunications
retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence work governed by
this chapter for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services.
Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications, and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the city not less than ten
days before the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than
30 days before to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The city shall
specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed,
used and constructed.
      (2)   If the city fails to provide such specification of location to the
telecommunications retailer within either ten days after service of notice to
the city by the telecommunications retailer for work not involving excavation
for new construction or 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer for work involving excavation for new construction,
the telecommuni-cations retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit
under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
95.04 the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application
for a permit and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities according to this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not create
a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights
of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   When the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material respect
from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the completion of the
permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall specifically identify where
the locations of the actual facilities deviate from the locations approved in
the permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from the
requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance
according to §
95.21. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall
either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that
it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)
and (2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly called “X,”
“C,” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with limits
not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages. The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the city of Farmer City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the city of Farmer City city clerk
of such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no event later
than ten days before said cancellation, the utility shall obtain and furnish to
the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of
this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or part of the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this section. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) of this section, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C)
and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to
the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division
(A) of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-
insurer” under the Workers Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained according to this section at the permittee’s sole cost
and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur because of any action or
nonperformance by permittee violating this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this division
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing before the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken before substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the city may, in the
exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of
security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the
permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, if the permittee
has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14 day notice period.
Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur because of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the permittee
shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that all interest accrued on the
amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city, upon
written request for said withdrawal to the city, if any such withdrawal does
not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required in division (C)
of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In case of any revocation of the permit, the
security fund, and all accrued interest therein, shall become the property of
the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, loss or damage
incurred by the city because of said revocation, if any amounts greater than
said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially
according to the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way and restore the
rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such
removal to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. Besides the issuance of a notice of revocation or
suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery of
any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the city or its
designee may, at the option of the city: correct the deficiencies; upon not
less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or
equipment; or after not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure to
cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city. The
permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days before the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way or
change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the facility
shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under
the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in the right-
of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Manager shall determine, in the exercise of sound engineering
judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final. If
requested, the City Manager shall state which standard or principle will apply
to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours before beginning work
that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business or
institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution of
the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
95.20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements brought to the utility’s
attention by the city.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   For an underground power or communications line, the facility
shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not more than
five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (B)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. 192.707
(1989)).
   (C)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (D)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (E)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   (F)   Above ground installation. Above ground facilities may be installed
only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and
property in the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than 48 hours before boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that
it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon
it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved shall be bored under or around
the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of an open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench anytime unless special
permission is obtained from the city.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   The utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree
designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials according to IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is unsuitable
for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For three years from the date construction of a facility is
completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any
backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
95.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the City Manager.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   For water main or service crossing, encasement shall be
furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
before highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical joints
are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be encased
regardless of installation method.
         (d)   For gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may be
eliminated.
         (e)   For gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if: extra
heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and cathodic
protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                           MINIMUM COVER
Power or communication line (in general)   30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication line installed by the plowed 24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                  30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                 Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 305 (formerly General Order
160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safely
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring to minimize damage when crossing
improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: the crossing is installed by using “moles,” “whip augers,” or other
approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted before roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded according to the National Electrical
Safety Code.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if before roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 – Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR
192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, and all
other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way
shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code for Pressure
Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
before and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or
an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the City Manager when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for identifying possible facilities. When
notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by J.U.L.I.E., a
utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within 48
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, according to the Illinois Underground
Facilities Damage Prevention Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (B)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (C)   Chemical use. Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way
whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction,
repair, maintenance, or installation of any city improvement in or upon, or the
operations of the city in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, before
cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. When the city does not direct the utility that abandoned
the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the city, the
abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of
all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see  §
95.99
§ 95.19 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the
utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a
timely manner and to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfiring, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed before the commencement of the
project.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Manager of the emergency, advising what steps have been taken for
protection of the traveling public and what will be required to make the
necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with
the free movement of traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City Manager as
a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The City Manager shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The City Manager may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine according to
the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the city will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city’s costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility who
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 761, passed 10-15-01)
CHAPTER 96: HOTEL ROOM GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS TAX
Section
   
96.01   Imposition
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Tax constituting separate charge
   
96.04   Exemptions from tax
   
96.05   Use of proceeds
   
96.06   Books and records
   
96.07   Registration
   
96.08   Tax returns
   
96.09   Payment of tax
   
96.10   Interest and penalties
   
96.11   Penalties for late filing
   
96.12   Compliance
   
96.13   Audits
   
96.14   Violations
   
96.15   Lien imposed
   
96.16   Partial invalidity
§ 96.01 IMPOSITION.
   A hotel room gross rental receipts tax is hereby imposed, effective
September 1, 2002, under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14. Hotel rooms, tax on
gross rental receipts to impose a tax upon all persons engaged in the business
of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel, as defined in “The Hotel
Operators’ Occupation Tax Act,” at a rate of 5% of the gross rental receipts
from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from gross rental
receipts, the proceeds from renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents
of that hotel, said tax to be administered and collected in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings as defined in the
Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq., as
amended, and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14, as applicable, and as same shall be
in force and effect from time to time.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.03 TAX CONSTITUTING SEPARATE CHARGE.
   Those persons subject to the tax imposed by this chapter may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability for such tax by separately stating such tax
as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with the state tax imposed under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax
Act heretofore cited.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.04 EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX.
   Gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel
only to permanent residents shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
and persons subject to the tax imposed hereby shall be entitled to exclude from
gross rental receipts for the purpose of computing the tax imposed hereby, that
portion of such proceeds arising from renting, leasing or letting to permanent
residents of the hotel operated by such person.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.05 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The city shall expend the tax collected pursuant to this section
solely to promote tourism and conventions within the city, and otherwise to
attract nonresident, overnight visitors to the city, and no tax collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be used to advertise for or otherwise to promote
new competition in the hotel business within the city.
   (B)   (1)   The city has determined that hotel/motel funds shall be awarded
to various organizations to promote tourism within the community.
      (2)   A maximum contribution awarded from the hotel/motel fund shall not
exceed 50% of the account balance.
      (3)   Any organization shall be limited to one request per event/occasion
for funding from the account within 365 days.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02; Am. Ord. 977A, passed 4-17-17; Am. Ord. 1012, passed
9-17-18)
§ 96.06 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this chapter shall keep separate
books and records of his or her business as an operator so as to show the rents
and occupancies taxable under this section separately from his or her
transactions not taxable hereunder. If any such operator fails to keep such
separate books or records, the operator shall be liable to tax at the rate
designated herein upon the entire gross proceeds from the operation of his or
her hotel.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.07 REGISTRATION.
   All persons engaged within the city in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel or motel, so as to be subject to the tax imposed
hereby, shall register the operation in the office of the City Clerk upon a
registration form to be adopted and prescribed by the City Manager, which forms
shall include such information as shall be reasonably necessary in order to
assure collection and enforcement of the tax imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.08 TAX RETURNS.
   Each person required to be registered hereunder and subject to the tax
imposed by this chapter shall, on or before the last day of each calendar
month, file a tax return in the office of the City Clerk on a form to be
adopted and prescribed by the City Manager which shall include the information
required to be reported on the tax return filed by such person with the state
Department of Revenue pursuant to the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act
hereinabove cited, for the preceding calendar month, together with a copy of
the return filed with the state for such period. In the event any person
required to file a return hereunder shall not be required to file a monthly
return with the state Department of Revenue pursuant to the Hotel Operators’
Occupation Tax Act, such person shall, upon substantiation of the required
filing frequency of the state return, be entitled to file the tax returns due
pursuant to this chapter upon the same frequency and for the same period as the
state return is required to be filed by such person, with the prior approval of
the City Manager.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.09 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax due pursuant to this chapter shall be due and payable on or before
the due date of the tax return showing the tax liability and shall be paid to
the City Treasurer, together with any interest and penalty due, and the City
Treasurer shall deposit the funds so collected into a separate fund to be
designated Hotel and Motel Operators’ Occupation Tax Fund.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   If the tax due pursuant this chapter is not paid on or before the due date
of the return required to be filed by the person responsible for the payment of
the tax, such person shall, in addition to the tax, be liable for a penalty
equal to 1-1/2% of the tax due for each month or part thereof until such tax
and penalty is paid in full. The penalty imposed hereby shall be assessed and
collected in the same manner as the tax imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.11 PENALTIES FOR LATE FILING.
   Any person responsible for filing a tax return and paying tax pursuant to
this section who shall fail to file the required tax return on or before the
due date thereof, whether or not the tax is paid therewith, shall be liable for
penalty in the amount of $10 per day for each day that such tax return is late,
and each day shall constitute a separate offense for purposes hereof.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.12 COMPLIANCE.
   All returns required to be filed hereunder shall be executed by the
proprietor, a general partner, or an authorized corporate officer and shall be
made under penalties of perjury. Any person wilfully filing a return containing
false or inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and of a violation
of this chapter, and shall be subject to the fine imposed for violations of
this chapter in addition.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.13 AUDITS.
   The city, through its designated agent or officer, shall have the right, at
reasonable times after reasonable notice, to examine all books and records
maintained by the person registered or required to be registered under this
chapter, including, but not limited to, general accounting records, bank
records, returns required to be filed under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax
Act heretofore cited, state and federal income tax returns and any other books,
records or documents which are relevant in the determination and confirmation
of the full and accurate reporting of gross receipts on which tax is imposed by
this section, the entitlement to any exemptions claimed, and the payment of the
full tax due pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.14 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the foregoing provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for
each offense, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, and each day or
part thereof upon which such
offense continues, shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.15 LIEN IMPOSED.
   At any time after an assessment and demand for payment of any tax interest
and/or penalty due pursuant to this section is made against any person, the
city may file a notice of lien for said tax, in the office of the recorder of
deeds of DeWitt County, or any other county in which the person responsible for
the payment of tax resides or has property and a lien shall attach to all
property owned by such person in said county and shall continue in effect for a
period of seven years after filing and may be foreclosed in the manner of a
judicial lien. The remedy of imposing a lien hereunder shall be in addition to
all other remedies available to the city to collect the tax, interest and
penalty due, including civil actions.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
§ 96.16 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   In the event any term or provision of this chapter is determined to be
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalid or
unenforceable provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of this chapter and the provisions hereof declared to be severable.
(Ord. 771, passed 8-5-02)
CHAPTER 97: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF VACANT STRUCTURES
AND PROPERTIES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Enforcement authority
   
97.03   Responsible parties; liens
   
97.04   Obligations of owners of vacant structures
   
97.05   Vacant structure registration certificate
   
97.06   Vacant structure maintenance standards
   
97.07   Vacant structure registration certificate fee
   
97.08   Required liability insurance
   
97.09   Affixing contact/emergency information to vacant property
   
97.10   Enforcement and penalties
   
97.11   Request for waiver
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings set forth below:
   OWNER. Every person, entity or service company who alone or jointly or
separately with others:
      (1)   Have the legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
building, land or structure;
      (2)   Has care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
building, land or structure in any capacity, including but not limited to
executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the holder of
legal title;
      (3)   Is a mortgagee under the terms of a mortgage, where the mortgagor
is no longer taking responsibility for the property, and where the mortgage in
question contains a provision authorizing the mortgagee to act to secure or
repair the property;
      (4)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property;
      (5)   Is a mortgagee that has instituted proceedings against the
mortgagor; or
      (6)   Is a trustee or other person appointed by the courts invested with
possession or control of any such property.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Includes owners, tenants, occupiers, property managers,
lessees or agents.
   STATEMENT OF INTENT.  A form completed by the owner, as defined, of a vacant
structure or responsible party which contains specific information regarding
the structure and the owners' plans for rehabilitation, maintenance, demolition
and/or removal.
   STRUCTURE. Any physical object or edifice that is built or installed and is
located on and affixed to the land. The term STRUCTURE shall include any part
of a structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION. Any rehabilitation, the cost of which exceeds
50% of the market value of the existing structure.
   VACANT. A structure that is:
      (1)   Lacking the habitual presence of human beings, who have a legal
right to be on the premises for 90 consecutive days;
      (2)   A structure at which substantially all lawful business or
construction activity or residential occupancy has ceased;
      (3)   Which is substantially devoid of contents; or
      (4)   A multi-family residential property when 90% of the dwelling units
are unoccupied.
   For the purposes of this chapter, exceptions to the definition of vacant
shall be made for properties that are actively listed for sale with a licensed
realtor and for those properties which are under active, ongoing rehabilitation
or reconstruction and have a current building permit issued by the appropriate
jurisdiction, if required; and a single-family, owner occupied residence where
the owners are temporarily absent because the owner temporarily resides at an
alternative address for a portion of the year, but the property is secured and
in full compliance with all other city ordinances and regulations.
   VACANT STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS. The maintenance standards to which
the vacant structures are subject under this chapter, are set forth in all of
the applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and county, as amended
from time to time.
   VACANT STRUCTURE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. Document issued by the city for
structures meeting the definition of VACANT STRUCTURE.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 1093, passed 10-3-22)
§ 97.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The City Police Department is authorized to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, maintaining lists
setting forth the status of vacant structures. The City Police Department may
delegate his/her powers and duties to an appropriate designee or inspector.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.03 RESPONSIBLE PARTIES; LIENS.
   Every responsible party with respect to any vacant property shall be jointly
and severally liable with every other responsible party for the obligations set
forth in this chapter. In reference to an owner in this chapter shall include
all responsible parties. All fees, costs and charges assessed and incurred by
the city shall constitute a lien on the real estate upon which such vacant
structure is situated.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.04 OBLIGATIONS OF OWNERS OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Within ten days of a structure becoming vacant, as defined herein, the
owner of the structure shall apply for a Vacant Structure Registration
Certificate and pay a fee of $200. If the structure is still vacant at the time
of expiration of the original Vacant Structure Registration Certificate (six
months as defined below), the owner shall immediately apply to renew the
certificate. At the city’s sole discretion, renewal may be had upon
demonstrated need for a maximum of two six- month periods, for an aggregate
maximum of 18 months total vacancy registration. Renewed permits shall be
subject to all conditions and obligations imposed by this chapter on the
initial certificate, including the payment of a $250 fee at the first renewal
and a fee of $300 at the second renewal. It shall be the responsibility of the
registered owner to file an amended registration within ten days of any changes
contained in the initial application, including occupancy or transfer. During
the period of registration, the owner shall provide access to the city to
conduct inspections of the structure, both interior and exterior if deemed
necessary by the city, and, following reasonable notice, to determine
compliance with this chapter and any other relevant codes and ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   The owner of a vacant structure shall comply with all regulations of
the city. To this end, the owner shall apply for all applicable building, fire
prevention and zoning permits necessary to bring the structure into compliance
within ten days of obtaining a Vacant Structure Registration Certificate.
   (C)   The owner of a vacant structure shall, within ten days of receipt of
the Vacant Structure Registration Certificate, complete the removal of all:
      (1)   Combustible materials from the structure in compliance with the
applicable fire prevention regulations;
      (2)   Waste, rubbish or debris from the interior of the structure; and
      (3)   Waste, rubbish, debris or excess vegetation including grass in
excess of eight inches from the yards surrounding the vacant structure in
accordance with the city's ordinances.
   (D)   The owner of a vacant structure shall immediately lock, barricade or
secure all doors, windows and other openings in the structure to prevent entry
by unauthorized persons, in accordance with the vacant structure maintenance
standards of this chapter. The owner shall, as needed, provide additional
security in the event of increased danger to human life or the public welfare,
as determined by the city.
   (E)   The obligations of the owner of a vacant structure are continuing
obligations which are effective throughout the time that the structure is
vacant as that term is defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 1086, passed 6-6-22)
§ 97.05 VACANT STRUCTURE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Application by the owner of a vacant structure for a Vacant Structure
Certificate shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall
include a "statement of intent" which will set forth information as to:
      (1)   The expected period of vacancy (including the date of initial
vacancy);
      (2)   The plan for regular maintenance during the vacancy to comply with
the vacant structure maintenance standards of this subsection and all of the
applicable property maintenance, building and nuisance codes of the city;
      (3)   A plan and timeline for the lawful occupancy, rehabilitation,
removal or demolition of the structure;
      (4)   Measures to be taken to ensure that the structure will be kept
weather tight and secure from trespassers and that it will be safe for entry by
police officers, firefighters and code or building inspectors in time of
exigent circumstances or emergency as well as at times of reasonable inspection
as provided in §
97.06 below;
      (5)   Measures to be taken to assure that the premises remain free from
nuisance conditions and in good order in conformance with the vacant structure
maintenance standards; and
      (6)   List all persons authorized to be present in the structure and
provide notices of trespass to the police authorizing the arrest for trespass
of individuals not on the list. (The owner shall update the authorized person
list as needed).
   (B)   No Vacant Structure Registration Certificate shall be effective for
more than six months from the date of issuance. Upon a showing of demonstrated
need, up to two six-month renewals may be granted by the City Manager. Renewals
beyond 18 months may be granted by the City Manager upon showing of
extraordinary need and circumstances.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 1093, passed 10-3-22)
§ 97.06 VACANT STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   A vacant structure shall be subject to the maintenance standards as set
forth in the applicable provisions of city ordinances.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.07 VACANT STRUCTURE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE FEE.
   The Vacant Structure Registration Certificate application fee of $50 shall
also be charged upon application for certificate renewal. The fee shall be paid
at the time of application or renewal.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.08 REQUIRED LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or owner's agent to maintain
liability insurance on all vacant and registered properties under their
control. Proof of evidence of such insurance shall be filed with the city.
Minimum insurance amounts shall be determined by the city on an individual
basis.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.09 AFFIXING CONTACT/EMERGENCY INFORMATION TO VACANT PROPERTY.
   The owner or owner's agent shall affix to the vacant structure a copy of the
Vacant Structure Registration Certificate in a front window so that it is able
to be read by law enforcement or city personnel as needed.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
§ 97.10 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a minimum fine of $150, not to exceed $750. Each day that
said violation continues shall be considered a new and separate violation.
Prosecution under this section is a remedy cumulative to any and all other
remedies at law and equity, including but not limited to the city's remedies
under 65 ILCS 5/11-13-15.
   (B)   All fees, costs or charges assessed or incurred by the city pursuant
to this chapter shall be a lien upon the real property. The lien shall be
superior to all subsequent liens and encumbrances. The City Attorney shall file
a notice of lien, within six months after such cost and expense is incurred, in
the office of the DeWitt County Recorder of Deeds. The lien may be enforced by
proceeding to foreclose, as in case of mortgages or mechanic's liens.
   (C)   At the expiration of 18 months from the original issuance of the
Vacant Structure Registration Certificate, the structure must be actively for
sale, reoccupied, removed or demolished. Any structure which is vacant beyond
the 18 month maximum registration period shall be considered abandoned and a
public nuisance and the city may pursue whatever legal action is afforded to it
by law for the removal and/or abatement of public nuisance.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 1093, passed 10-3-22)
§ 97.11 REQUEST FOR WAIVER.
   (A)   Any owner of a vacant residential property of one to three units, who
is a natural person with insufficient income or resources to fulfill all of the
obligations imposed herein, may petition the city for a waiver of the annual
fee, a reduction of the minimum amount of liability insurance, and/or a waiver
of some or all of the property rehabilitation requirements (hereinafter
"financial requirements") under this chapter for a period of time not to exceed
12 months. Application for a waiver of financial requirements shall be in
writing on forms provided by the city. The decision of the City Manager, to be
made within 14 days of receiving the petition, shall be made in writing and
shall forthwith be mailed or delivered to the petitioner. An appeal of the
decision may be made to the City Council, in writing, within 14 days of the
mailing or delivery of the decision. Individuals who are granted a 12 month
waiver under this section are still obligated to keep the registered property
secure and safe, and the exterior property areas free from debris, with grass
regularly mowed.
   (B)   A request for a waiver from the provisions of §
97.04 for good cause as set forth in the waiver request, shall be made by the
owner to the City Manager, in writing. The waiver request shall be reviewed by
the City Manager within 30 days of receipt and the decision of the City Manager
shall be in writing and mailed or delivered to the petitioner.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 98: NOISE
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Noise prohibitions
   
98.03   Exemptions
   
98.04   Persons responsible
   
98.05   Enforcement
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the capitalized words, terms and phrases and their derivatives set
forth below shall have the meanings as follows:
   BOUNDARY LINE.
      (1)   In the case of a residential unit in a building or structure
containing more than one residential unit, the boundary line shall be the
perimeter of such residential unit, where a residential unit shall be that area
under the exclusive use or control of the owner or occupant.
      (2)   In all other cases, the boundary line shall be the perimeter of any
tract or parcel of real estate, any public right-of-way or any public space.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by the city or any private utility when
restoring any utility service.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley
or similar place normally accessible to the public that is owned or controlled
by the city, the state or the federal government.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real estate or structures on any real estate that is owned
by a government entity and is normally accessible to the public, including but
not limited to, parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real estate that contains a building or structure in
which one or more persons reside, provided that such building or structure is
properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25)
§ 98.02 NOISE PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or to cause to be
made or continued any sound that is plainly audible beyond the boundary line
from which any such sound emanates in connection with any of the following:
   (A)   Radios, televisions, boomboxes, phonographs, stereos, musical
instruments and similar devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boombox, stereo, musical instrument or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player or operator of the device, and those who are voluntarily listening
to such sound.
   (B)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices and similar devices. The sounding of
any horn, signaling device or other similar device on any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle in any residential area, or on any public right-of-
way or in any public space for more than ten consecutive seconds. The sounding
of any horn, signaling device or other similar device as a danger warning is
exempt from this prohibition.
   (C)   Non-emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or
permitting the intentional sounding of any amplified signal from any bell,
chime, siren, whistle or similar device, intended primarily for nonemergency
purposes, from any place for more than ten consecutive seconds in any hourly
period. The reasonable sounding of such devices by houses of religious worship,
ice cream trucks, seasonal contribution solicitors or by the city for traffic-
control purposes are exempt from this provision.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the intentional sounding of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency or except as provided in divisions (D)(1) and
(2):
      (1)   The testing of an emergency signaling device may occur between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time. In
no case shall such test time exceed five minutes. Any such testing of an
emergency signaling system shall not occur more than once in each calendar
month; or
      (2)   The sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or
fire alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm shall terminate within 15 minutes
of activation unless an emergency exists.
   (E)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems, sound emitting yard
decorations and similar devices. The use or operation of a loudspeaker,
amplifier, public address system or other device for producing or reproducing
sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 10:00 p.m.
and 10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays within or adjacent to any residential
area or any public space. Any public performance, gathering or parade for which
permission or other authorization has been obtained from the city is exempt
from this provision.
   (F)   Yelling, shouting and similar activities. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing within or adjacent to any residential area or any public
place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Cries for emergency
assistance and warnings are exempt from this prohibition.
   (G)   Loading or unloading merchandise, materials, equipment. The creation
of unreasonably loud or excessive noise between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle within or
adjacent to any residential area.
   (H)   Construction or repair of buildings, excavation of streets and
highways. The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
structure or the excavation of streets and highways other than between the
hours of 7 :00 a.m. and 7 :00 p.m. on weekdays. In cases of an emergency,
construction or repair noises are exempt from this provision. In non- emergency
situations, the City Inspector or the Director of Public Works may issue a
permit, upon application, if the City Inspector or the Director of Public Works
determines that the public health and safety, as affected by any such noise
caused by the construction or repair of buildings or the excavation of streets
and highways between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will not be impaired,
and if the City Inspector or the Director of Public Works further determines
that loss or inconvenience would result to a party in interest.
   (I)   Mowers, blowers and similar devices. The operation of any noise-
creating mower, blower, power fan or any internal combustion engine, the
operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or
fluids within or adjacent to any residential area between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7 :00 a.m.
   (J)   Cars, motorcycles and similar vehicles. The operation of any noise-
creating car, (Ord. No. motorcycle or similar vehicle with any internal
combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of
operating gases or fluids between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out in §
98.02 and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set forth in such §
98.02:
   (A)   Motor vehicles on roadways of the city, provided that the prohibitions
of §
98.02(B) continues to apply.
   (B)   Repairs of any utility facility that pose a clear and immediate danger
to life, health or significant loss of property.
   (C)   Sirens, whistles or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles or other
alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police activity
or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in §
98.02(D) continues to apply.
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
   (E)   Repairs or excavation of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf
of the city, the state or the federal government between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it impractical to
perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (F)   Reasonable activities conducted on public parks, playgrounds, pools,
Farmer City Raceway, Farmer City/DeWitt County Fairgrounds and public or
private school grounds, which are conducted in accordance with the manner in
which such spaces are generally used, including but not limited to, school
athletic and school entertainment events.
   (G)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and sporting events and other
similar outdoor events, provided that permission or other authorization has
been obtained from the city.
   (H)   Locomotives and other railroad equipment and aircraft.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25)
§ 98.04 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   The occupant of the tract or parcel of real estate or of the
residential unit, or the agent of any such occupant, from whom a sound emanates
shall be presumed to have permitted any such sound to occur. This presumption
may be rebutted by evidence of a bona fide effort by any such occupant to
prevent a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The occupant of the tract or parcel of real estate or of the
residential unit, or the agent of any such occupant, who shall permit another
person to create a sound in violation of this chapter shall be deemed
responsible for such sound to the same extent as the person creating the sound
and shall be subject to the same punishment.
   (C)   Any person in charge of operating, ordering, directing or allowing the
operation or maintenance of any device or machine creating a sound in violation
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of violating this chapter.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25)
§ 98.05. ENFORCEMENT.
   If a person's conduct would otherwise violate this chapter and consists of
speech or communication, of a gathering with others to hear or observe speech
or communication, or of a gathering with others to picket or otherwise express
in a nonviolent manner a position on social, economic, political or religious
questions, the person must be ordered to, and have the opportunity to, move,
disperse or otherwise remedy the violation prior to any arrest or any complaint
being issued.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation of
this chapter continues.
(Ord. 1135, passed 3-3-25)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
Licensing Requirements
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Retailer’s licenses; classes and fees
   
110.17   Separate applications; semi- annual payment of fees
   
110.18   Application for license
   
110.19   Restriction on licenses
   
110.20   Renewal of licenses
   
110.21   Bond
   
110.22   Posting license
   
110.23   Suspension or revocation of license by Mayor
   
110.24   Disposition of fees
   
110.25   Number of licenses
   
110.26   Transfer/renewal of license
Standards of Operation
   
110.40   Closing hours
   
110.41   Unobstructed view of licensed premises
   
110.42   Control or financing by manufacturers prohibited
   
110.43   Certain acts prohibited and others required
   
110.44   Change of location
Administration
   
110.55   Local Liquor Commissioner
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be construed to the end that health, safety and welfare
of the people of the city shall be protected and temperance in the consumption
of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and promoted by sound, careful, control
and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases herein defined
are used in this chapter in the sense given them in the following definitions.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood
alcohol.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE. Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, light beer and the
like.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. The four varieties of liquor above defined ALCOHOL,
SPIRITS, WINE and BEER and every liquid or solid, patented, or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used
in the manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor to any liquid or solid containing
one-half of one percent or less of alcohol by volume. Nor shall the provisions
of this chapter apply to flavoring extracts, concentrates, syrups, or
medicinal, mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet preparations or food
products unfit for beverage purposes, but the provisions of this chapter shall
not be construed to exclude or not to apply to alcoholic liquor used in the
manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products. None of the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and used by any
church or religious organization for sacramental purposes.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refer to and mean sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   TO SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   PACKAGE SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor,
in the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or
in part on the premises where sold.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   OWNER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons who are in control of any place
where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they
be individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders, or corporations or otherwise.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the applications for the
license, or in the license, as the place where the business to be covered or
covered by the license is to be, or is, carried on.
   APPROPRIATE REDUCTION OF THE LICENSE FEE. A prorated charge for the license
dated from the first of the month in which the license is to be issued.
   LICENSE. A written or printed permit issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commission, to engage in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.15 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell at retail or have in his possession and offer for sale
at retail liquor within the corporate limits of the city without having first
obtained a license or permit so to do as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 RETAILER’S LICENSES; CLASSES AND FEES.
   Licenses to sell alcoholic liquors shall be and are hereby divided into six
classes, to-wit:
   (A)   (1)   Class A licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on the
licensed premises specified, of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises as well as package sales of such alcoholic liquor. The
semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $500.
      (2)   Class A1 licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on the
licensed premises specified, of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises without the package sales of such alcoholic liquor. The
semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $400. In addition to the foregoing, a
Class A licensee may purchase a Sunday sales option for the additional
semiannual fee of $50, which option shall allow the licensee the right to sell
alcoholic liquor on Sundays as set forth in §
110.40(E).
      (3)   Class A2 license is a festival license that may be issued to
holders of existing Class A or Class A1 licenses wishing to have special
functions for the sale of all alcohol, for consumption on the premises only.
The location for such may be any location within the city limits as approved by
the City Council. The festival license shall be valid for no more than four
consecutive days.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of the Class A2 license, the proposed
license holder shall provide evidence to the Local Liquor Commissioner of dram
shop liability insurance issued by reputable insurance company doing business
in the State of Illinois in limits no less than required by the Illinois Dram
Shop Act (as amended or replaced).
         (b)   Hours of the sale of alcoholic liquor during festivals shall be
limited Monday through Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day.
December 31st hours shall be from 6:00 a.m. on December 31st until 3:00 a.m. on
January 1st.
         (c)   No Class A2 liquor license shall be issued without a background
check as provided in this chapter, the recommendation of the Liquor
Commissioner and approval by the City Council.
         (d)   The fee shall be $50 for each day of the festival, payable in
advance.
         (e)   The application for any such Class A2 license shall be submitted
to the Local Commissioner at least 21 days, but no earlier than 90 days, prior
to the date of use.
         (f)   Special festival regulations. In addition to the other
regulations provided in this chapter relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor,
the following regulations shall apply to festivals authorized by the Liquor
Commissioner and the City Council. To the extent that other provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with the special festival regulations, these special
festival regulations shall apply:
            1.   No sales of alcohol in bottles and no package liquor sales
shall be permitted.
            2.   Whenever feasible, the festival premises shall be delineated
by appropriate barriers, fencing or other markings.
            3.   The Class A2 license holder shall provide appropriate security
personnel, sufficient in number to monitor the sale, delivery and consumption
of alcoholic liquor.
            4.   Class A2 festival license holders shall not be required to
serve food as a meal or at a table as otherwise may be required under this
chapter.
            5.   No person, entity or business establishment shall be issued
more than four Class A2 festival licenses in a calendar year.
            6.   The applicant for a Class A2 festival license must submit a
written request for approval of the festival to City Council, the written
request to specify the nature of the festival and provide information regarding
the festival, including but not limited to the following:
               a.    Delineation of the festival premises;
               b.    Whether any portion of the festival will be conducted off
of the license holder's premises;
               c.    Whether streets, parking lots or other public rights-of-
way will be used or closed during festival;
               d.   The manner in which the festival grounds will be fenced or
roped off from the general public; and
               e.   If the proposed license includes any premises or area not
beneficially owned or duly leased or licensed by the applicant for full period
for which such temporary license is to be issued, the application shall include
a signed statement by the owner of the proposed premises or area that the owner
has freely and fully consented to the issuance of such temporary license may be
issued without first advising the Local Commissioner in writing of such
revocation.
      (4)   Class A3 license is an outdoor garden license that may be issued to
holders of existing Class A or Class A1 licenses wishing to have an outdoor
garden for the sale of all alcohol, for consumption on the premises only.
         (a)   For purposes of this section, an OUTDOOR GARDEN is an area
generally open and subject to the direct influence of the outdoor environment.
         (b)   Only the current holder of a Class A or A1 liquor license under
this chapter may apply for and receive a license to establish and operate an
outdoor garden, which must be located immediately adjacent to a totally
enclosed permanent structure which is the site of a dram shop lawfully
operating under such Class A/A1 liquor license.
         (c)   All applicants for a license to operate an outdoor garden shall
submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner a written application which
accurately and completely describes the proposed outdoor garden, its proposed
hours of operation and any other pertinent information, along with plans,
specifications and drawings which demonstrate that the proposed outdoor garden
will comply with the terms and conditions of this division (A)(4) and with any
other applicable provisions of local, state and federal law.
         (d)   The area of an outdoor garden shall be considered to be a
portion of the immediately adjacent dram shop operated by the holder of the
underlying Class A/A1 liquor license for purposes of establishing any
applicable parking requirements.
         (e)   An outdoor garden shall be constructed, maintained and operated
in accordance with the descriptions, conditions, plans, specifications and
drawings submitted with the application for the license to construct and
operate the outdoor garden.
         (f)   Except for emergency entrances and exits which shall be used
only in the case of a bona fide emergency, no access to the outdoor garden is
allowed except through that portion of the attached totally enclosed permanent
structure from which the holder of the underlying Class A/A1 liquor license
operates a dram shop.
         (g)   An outdoor garden shall have a fence, wall or other similar
barricade having a height of not less than four feet, which shall be
constructed in such a fashion as to prevent the passage of glasses, bottles or
other similar containers used for the consumption of alcoholic beverages from a
location inside the outdoor garden through the fence, wall or other barricade
to persons outside of the outdoor garden.
         (h)   The outdoor garden premises shall be kept free of litter, cans,
bottles and spills at all times. The licensee shall promptly collect and
dispose of all litter, trash and other waste materials associated with the
service of alcoholic liquor. The licensee shall dispose of this waste in his or
her own trash containers only.
         (i)   No alcoholic beverages may be served or consumed within an
outdoor garden except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. Sunday
through Saturday.
         (j)   An outdoor garden shall not be accessible to any portion of the
building to which it is adjacent other than that portion of the building used
as a location for a dram shop by the holder of the underlying Class A/A1 liquor
license.
         (k)   The Liquor Control Commissioner may, as a condition to issuance
of a license to operate an outdoor garden, restrict or prohibit the use of
sound-amplifying devices within the outdoor garden; provided that such
restrictions are noted on the license issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner
authorizing the operation of the outdoor garden.
         (l)   No outdoor garden shall be occupied by any number of persons in
excess of the maximum established by any other applicable law or regulation.
         (m)   An outdoor garden is a place of employment within the meaning of
the Smoke Free Illinois Act. Accordingly, smoking is prohibited within the
confines of an outdoor garden to the same extent as smoking is prohibited
within the attached totally enclosed permanent structure from which the
licensee operates a dram shop under authority of the qualifying Class A/A1
liquor license.
         (n)   A license authorizing the operation of an outdoor garden does
not authorize the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any location
other than within the confines of the outdoor garden or within the confines of
the attached totally enclosed permanent structure from the licensee operating
the qualifying Class A/A1 liquor license.
         (o)   It is unlawful for any person to transfer, pass or deliver
alcoholic liquor from a location within an outdoor garden through or over a
fence, wall or other barricade to a person located outside of the outdoor
garden.
         (p)   The annual license fee for an outdoor garden license shall be
$100. An outdoor garden license shall be subject to expiration and renewal on
the same terms as its companion Class A/A1 liquor license.
   (B)   Class B licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in the original package as package sales not for consumption on the
license premises. The semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $200. In
addition to the foregoing, a Class F licensee may purchase a Sunday sales
option for the additional semiannual fee of $50, which option shall allow the
licensee the right to sell alcoholic liquor on Sundays as set forth in §
110.40(F).
   (C)   Class C licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in the original package as package sales not for consumption on the
licensed premises of beer and wine. The semiannual fee for such licenses shall
be $150. In addition to the foregoing, a Class C licensee may purchase a Sunday
sales optional for the additional semiannual fee of $50 which option shall
allow the licensee the right to sell beer and wine on Sundays as set forth in §
110.40(F).
   (D)   Class D licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises by organizations of war veterans or social
clubs, social clubs to be eligible for this class of license must be duly
organized under the General Not-for-Profit Corporation Act of the state for the
recreation of its members. The semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $50.
   (E)   Class E licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and
wine by a general not-for-profit corporation, for consumption only at races,
fairs, sporting events and expositions within a building, tent or fenced- in
area. The owner, lessee or renter entity shall allow no beer, wine or other
liquor to be brought onto the premises other than beer and wine to be sold by a
licensed entity. The semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $50.
   (F)   Class F licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor by the drink and not in package, for consumption only on the licensed
premises where it is sold. To be eligible for this class of license, the
licensee must be the owner or proprietor of a restaurant, as defined in §
110.02. It shall be unlawful for a Class F licensee to sell or offer for sale
at retail any alcoholic liquor except with meals. The licensee shall only be
qualified to hold or renew a Class F license, if the sale of alcoholic liquor
is not the principal business of the restaurant, constituting more that 50% of
the gross receipts of the restaurant business. The semiannual fee for such
licenses shall be $200. In addition to the foregoing, a Class F licensee may
purchase a Sunday sales option for the additional semiannual fee of $50, which
option shall allow the licensee the right to sell beer and wine on Sundays as
set forth in §
110.40(G).
   (G)   Class G license, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor by the drink and not in package form only on the licensed premises where
sold. To be eligible for this class of license, the licensee must be a duly
constituted educational, fraternal, civil, religious or veteran organization
and a tax-exempt organization under the Internal Revenue Code. The semiannual
fee for such licenses shall be $250.
   (H)   Class H license, a caterer retail license, which shall authorize the
licensee to serve alcoholic liquors as an incidental part of a food service
that served prepared meals which excludes the serving of snacks as the primary
meal, either on- or off-site whether licensed or unlicensed. The semiannual fee
for such a license shall be $200. In addition to the foregoing, a Class H
licensee may purchase a Sunday sales option for an additional semiannual fee of
$50, which operation shall allow the licensee the right to serve alcoholic
liquors on Sunday as set forth in §
110.40.
   (I)   (1)   Class I license is a festival license that may be issued to
educational, civic, service, charitable or other not-for-profit organizations
or authorized companies wishing to have special functions for the sale of all
alcohol, for consumption on the premises only. The location for such may be any
location within the city limits as approved by the City Council. The festival
license shall be valid for no more than four consecutive days.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of the Class I license, the proposed license
holder shall provide evidence to the Local Liquor Commissioner of dram shop
liability insurance issued by reputable insurance company doing business in the
State of Illinois in limits no less than required by the evidence to the Local
Liquor Commissioner of dram shop liability insurance issued by reputable
insurance company doing business in the State of Illinois in limits no less
than required by the Illinois Dram Shop Act (as amended or replaced).
      (3)   Hours of the sale of alcoholic liquor during festivals shall be
limited Monday through Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day.
December 31st hours shall be from 6:00 a.m. on December 31st until 3:00 a.m. on
January 1st.
      (4)   No Class I liquor license shall be issued without a background
check as provided in this chapter, the recommendation of the Liquor
Commissioner and approval by the City Council.
      (5)   The fee shall be $50 for each day of the festival, payable in
advance.
      (6)   The application for any such Class I license shall be submitted to
the Local Commissioner at least 21 days, but no earlier than 90 days, prior to
the date of use. If more than two applications are submitted on the ninetieth
day prior to the proposed date of use, a lottery of all valid and complete
applications shall be used to determine who shall be granted the two Class I
licenses. There shall be no more than one Class I license issued at any one
time, unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
      (7)   Special festival regulations. In addition to the other regulations
provided in this chapter relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, the
following regulations shall apply to festivals authorized by the Liquor
Commissioner and the City Council. To the extent that other provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with the special festival regulations, these special
festival regulations shall apply:
         (a)   No sales of alcohol in bottles and no package liquor sales shall
be permitted.
         (b)   Whenever feasible, the festival premises shall be delineated by
appropriate barriers, fencing or other markings.
         (c)   The Class I license holder shall provide appropriate security
personnel, sufficient in number to monitor the sale, delivery and consumption
of alcoholic liquor.
         (d)   Class I festival license holders shall not be required to serve
food as a meal or at a table as otherwise may be required under this chapter.
         (e)   No person, entity or business establishment shall be issued more
than four Class I festival licenses in a calendar year.
         (f)   The applicant for a Class I festival license must submit a
written request for approval of the festival to City Council, the written
request to specify the nature of the festival and provide information regarding
the festival, including but not limited to the following:
            1.   Delineation of the festival premises;
            2.   Whether any portion of the festival will be conducted off of
the license holder's premises;
            3.   Whether streets, parking lots or other public rights-of-way
will be used or closed during festival;
            4.   The manner in which the festival grounds will be fenced or
roped off from the general public; and
            5.   If the proposed license includes any premises or area not
beneficially owned or duly leased or licensed by the applicant for full period
for which such temporary license is to be issued, the application shall include
a signed statement by the owner of the proposed premises or area that the owner
has freely and fully consented to the issuance of such temporary license may be
issued without first advising the Local Commissioner in writing of such
revocation.
   (J)   (1)   Class I licenses, which shall authorize the holder of a state
issued liquor license to conduct winetasting by a winetasting representative
and/or the retail sale of package wine on the premises and during the hours of
a market event. The semiannual fee for such licenses shall be $50 and $15 for
each day the licensee conducts authorized winetasting and/or packaged wine
sales at a market event.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (J), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CLASS I LICENSE AFFIDAVIT. A signed and notarized affidavit stating
that:
            1.   The applicant shall not permit a consumer to take any cup,
glass, or other container containing wine for tasting beyond the immediate
adjacent area where the applicant will be offering the winetasting;
            2.   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to
offer wine for tasting or offer package wine for sale;
            3.   No person under the age of 21 years shall be offered wine for
tasting or package wine for sale;
            4.   Only a hold of a liquor license or a winetasting
representative shall be permitted to serve wine for tasting;
            5.   The applicant is not disqualified from receiving a liquor
license by reason of any matter or thing stated in the Farmer City Code or the
laws of the State of Illinois;
            6.   The applicant has not been convicted of any felony in any
state or federal jurisdiction which otherwise would disqualify the applicant
from receiving a Class I license;
            7.   The applicant shall abide by the Farmer City Code and the laws
of the State of Illinois in offering winetasting and/or the sale of package
wine;
            8.   Affirms that all statements made in the application for the
Class I license are true and correct; and
            9.    Understands that by submitting the application and the
information requested herein and thereby, along with the fees required, the
city in its exercise of reasonable discretion may deny the application for the
Class I license and, if denied, refund any fees tendered to the city for the
Class I license.
         CLASS I LICENSE APPLICATION. Shall provide the following additional
information in an application for such a license:
            1.   Names of market events for which the application is requested
and the specific dates and times of each market events’ operation for which the
Class I license is sought.
            2.   Addresses of where the market events are scheduled to operate;
            3.   Statement whether the applicant will be conducting winetasting
and/or package wine sales;
            4.   Names and contact information for each winetasting
representative who will be responsible for handling the winetasting, if
applicable;
            5.   A copy of the applicant’s current valid liquor license and
each winetasting representative’s license, if applicable, issued by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission;
            6.   A Class I liquor license affidavit; and
            7.   Other information as the Mayor deems appropriate.
         MARKET EVENT. Means, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the
Farmer City Chamber Farmers’ Market held in the city.
         PACKAGE WINE. Wine offered for sale, whether or not the license holder
conducts winetasting, in original containers which bear the wine manufacturer’s
label and which are corked, capped, or otherwise securely sealed at the place
of manufacture.
         WINETASTING. A supervised presentation of alcoholic products to the
public at an off-premise licensed retailer for the purpose of disseminating
product information and education, with consumption of alcoholic products being
an incidental part of the presentation without any charge or any monetary
compensation. Only products registered with the Commission may be tasted using
glasses, cups or other containers which are capable of holding no more than one
ounce of wine each.
         WINETASTING REPRESENTATIVE. Any person who holds a valid tasting
representative license which has be issued by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission and who works under the direction of, is supervised by, or is
employed by a person who holds a valid liquor license issued by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The Mayor, acting as Liquor Commissioner, or the Mayor’s designee
shall prepare or cause to be prepared such forms as are necessary and which are
consistent with this division (J) to implement the new Class I license
provisions contained in this division (J).
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95; Am. Ord. 774, passed 10-21-02; Am. Ord. 778, passed
5-5-03; Am. Ord. 793, passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. 945, passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 952,
passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 953, passed 8-17-15; Am. Ord. 980, passed 5-1-17; Am.
Ord. 1046, passed 3-2-20; Am. Ord. 1053, passed 8-3-20)
§ 110.17 SEPARATE APPLICATIONS; SEMI-ANNUAL PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   Separate applications must be filed for separate classes of licenses
by any applicant desiring to carry on more than one licensed business and a
separate license must be obtained for each location by any applicant desiring
to carry on a licensed business at more than one location.
   (B)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
terminate on the 30th day of April. Licensees may choose to renew in six-month
intervals ending on the 31st day of October and again on the following 30th day
of April. A license may be issued for the remainder thereof if issued between
either of those dates and there shall be a proportionate reduction of the
license fee. A license shall also be subject to termination by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, upon the discontinuation of active, regular business by
the licensee. All license fees are payable at the time the application is
submitted, whether annually or semi-annually. If the Mayor has authority and
basis to suspend or revoke a license, the Mayor may require the license be
subject to six-month renewal, in addition to any other authorized sanction or
penalty.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 11-6-23)
§ 110.18 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall make sworn, written
application to the City Clerk upon blanks prepared and furnished by the city.
Each applicant shall furnish the following information in answer to a
questionnaire accompanying such application:
   (A)   The name, business and residence address of applicant.
   (B)   That he or she is a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   His or her place of birth and if a naturalized citizen, the time and
place of naturalization.
   (D)   That he or she has never been convicted of a felony.
   (E)   That he or she has never been convicted of being a keeper of a house
of ill-fame, of pandering of any other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency
or morality.
   (F)   That he or she is not, at the time of making the application connected
with a house of ill-fame.
   (G)   That a license issued to him or her under this chapter has not been
revoked or suspended.
   (H)   The location where he or she proposed to engage in the business for
which the application was submitted, and whether or not the proposed location
is within 100 feet of any church or school.
   (I)   The type of business to be carried on, and the date such business was
established.
   (J)   Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in such place of
business, if such application is allowed.
   (K)   Whether alcoholic liquor will be sold or delivered outside of any
building or structure on said premises.
   (L)   Whether applicant owns the premises for which a license is sought and,
if he or she does not, the name of his or her landlord and the period of the
lease.
   (M)   The business or businesses in which applicant has been engaged for the
last five years proceeding the filing of such application.
   (N)   That applicant agrees not to violate any ordinance of the city or any
law of the United States or of the state in the conduct of his or her business
and that in the event such promise is broken or in the event any statement
contained in such application is not true, the license applied for may be
immediately suspended or revoked.
   (O)   An applicant for any license shall be required to show satisfactory
evidence that he or she is of good moral character, that he or she is a bona
fide resident of the Township of Santa Anna, County of DeWitt and State of
Illinois and has been so for at least 90 days prior to the date of his or her
application for a license when filed with the office of the City Clerk.
   (P)   All partners must sign the application, if the applicant is a
partnership. All corporate officers must sign and indicate their official
position on the application, if the applicant is a for profit corporation. If
the applicant is a not-for-profit corporation, the President and Secretary, or
persons serving in those respective capacities, must sign and indicate their
official position on the application. If the applicant is a corporation, the
principal place of business must be in compliance with residency in Santa Anna
Township, DeWitt County, Illinois and the application must include the name and
address of its registered agent. The information requested in the application
questionnaire must be furnished as to each party signing the application in
cases of partnerships or corporations.
   (Q)   The applicant must provide proof of Dram Shop insurance coverage in
accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois by delivering a copy of the
current insurance policy at the time of filing of the application.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.19 RESTRICTION ON LICENSES.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of Santa Anna Township, DeWitt County,
Illinois to the extent required and allowed by ILCS Chapter 235, Act 5, § 6-2;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a resident of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of a house of ill-
fame or who is keeping a house of ill-fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A partnership, unless all of the members of such partnership would be
qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholders owning in the aggregate more the 5% of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any state or federal
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or who
shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own or lease the premises for which a license is
sought for the period of the license;
   (M)   Any law enforcing public official, any mayor, alderman, or member of
the City Council;
   (N)   Any person, partnership, or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealer’s license;
   (O)   Any person, partnership, or corporation not paid up to date for all
city taxes and utilities as of the date of application.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.20 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk on
or before the first Monday of April and the first Monday of October each year.
The City Clerk shall report the names of all applicants for renewal of licenses
to the Mayor and City Council at the second regular meeting of the City Council
in April and October of such year, together with the location of the places of
business of such applicants, the amount of license fees payable upon the
renewal of such licenses, and whether or not any written complaint has been
filed as to the manner in which the applicant has carried on the business
authorized thereby.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.21 BOND.
   Except where otherwise provided herein, each person desiring a license shall
execute a penal bond in form and with security satisfactory to the Mayor,
conditioned upon the faithful observance and performance of all the provisions
of the Laws of the State of Illinois and of this chapter. Such bond shall be in
the sum of $2,000 and shall, upon approval, be filed in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.22 POSTING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license or licenses to be displayed in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE BY MAYOR.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor (Local Liquor Control Commissioner) for any one or more of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Violation of the laws of the United States, State of Illinois, or any
ordinance of the city relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in the
application for such a liquor license.
   (C)   The permitting of any unlawful, disorderly or immoral practice or
practices to be conducted on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.24 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time
application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the City Treasurer.
In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in
the general corporate fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated
by the City Council, by proper action.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.25 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued in the city no more than a total of:
   (A)   Three Class A and/or Class Al licenses;
   (B)   Three Class B licenses;
   (C)   Two Class C licenses;
   (D)   Two Class D licenses;
   (E)   One Class E license;
   (F)   Two Class F licenses;
   (G)   One Class G license;
   (H)   One Class H license; and
   (I)   One Class I license.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95; Am. Ord. 774, passed 10-21-02; Am. Ord. 778, passed
5-5-03; Am. Ord. 785, passed 9-15-03; Am. Ord. 788, passed 10-20-03; Am. Ord.
954, passed 8-17-15; Am. Ord. 957A, passed 12-7-15; Am. Ord. 975, passed 2-6-
17; Am. Ord. 1127, passed 8-5-24)
§ 110.26 TRANSFER/RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
six months after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided,
and shall not constitute property, shall not be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased license, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death, insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided that he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises
for which such renewal license is sought is suitable for such propose; and,
provided further that, the renewal privilege herein provided shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Mayor and the
City Council from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 110.40 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor in the city during the following hours:
      (1)   Between 1:20 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Tuesday through Saturday,
inclusive; and
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Monday; and
      (3)   After 1:20 a.m. on Sunday, except as otherwise provided for herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, to admit any person to
any licensed premises, or to allow any person to remain upon any licensed
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours
within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided, that in the case
of restaurants, stores or bowling alleys, such establishments may be kept open
during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by any
person during such hours.
   (C)   The provisions of the preceding two divisions shall not apply to Class
D and Class E licenses. It shall be unlawful for Class D and Class E licensees
to sell or offer for sale at retail, or to allow consumption of any alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises during the following hours:
      (1)   Between 1:20 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Tuesday through Saturday,
inclusive; and
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Monday; and
      (3)   Between 1:20 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (D)   All times referred to in this chapter are Central Standard Time or
Central Daylight Savings Time, or such other time, as is in effect within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (E)   Class A licensees with the Sunday sales option, as set forth in §
110.16, may sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor, beer or wine, as
authorized respectively, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sundays and 1:20
a.m. on Monday, any other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding.
   (F)   Class B and Class C licensees with the Sunday sales option, as set
forth in §
110.16 of this chapter, may sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine, as authorized respectively, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. on Sundays, any other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding.
   (G)   Class F licensees with the Sunday sales option, as set forth in §
110.16 of this chapter, may sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine, as authorized, between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
Sundays.
   (H)   All other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, licensees shall
be allowed to be open for business between the hours of 1:00 p.m. on December
31 to 2:00 a.m. on January 1 of any year for New Years.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95; Am. Ord. 793, passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. 917, passed
4-15-13) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for any premises unless said licensed premises is
so constructed that a clear and unobstructed view of the interior thereof may
be had by those passing on the street, road or sidewalk. No screen, blind
curtain partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon
the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises, which shall
prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road, or sidewalk at all times and no obstruction, nor any arrangements
of lights or lighting, shall be permitted in or about the interior of such
premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises form the street, road or sidewalk. Any licensee who shall permit or
cause the view of, in or about the interior of his her licensed premises to be
obstructed or who shall not provide adequate lighting for any such licensed
premises, as above provided, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 CONTROL OR FINANCING BY MANUFACTURERS PROHIBITED.
   No person engaged in the business of manufacturing alcoholic liquors nor any
agent of such person, shall be permitted to receive a license, nor shall any
such person rent, lend, give, or pay for any licensed premises or any
furnishings, fixtures or equipment used in the storage, handling, servings or
dispensing of alcoholic liquor or food in the place of business of any
licensee, nor shall he pay for the license issued any such licensee nor
advance, furnish or lend money for payment of any license, nor shall he be
interested in the ownership, conduct or operation of the business of such
licensee. Any licensee who shall permit or assent or be a party in any way to
any violation or infringement of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED AND OTHERS REQUIRED.
   No applicant for any license shall store or install any alcoholic liquor
fixtures, equipment or supplies on the premises for which a license is applied,
or otherwise take any steps to open up any business to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter until his or her application for a license has been
passed upon, approved, has been actually issued by the City Clerk and is
displayed on said premises as required by this chapter.
   (A)   No unnecessary noise shall be permitted on any licensed premises.
   (B)   No licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor
or to any intoxicated person.
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be allowed off any licensed premises in any
open container.
   (D)   No person less than 19 years of age shall be permitted in the course
of employment for a licensee to mix, to pour, to draw, to serve, to distribute,
or to make package sale of alcoholic liquor for delivery and sale a patron or
customer.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.44 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only on
the premises described into application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon the issuance of a written permit to make such change issued
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances
of the city.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.55 LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor of the city shall be known as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner of the city and shall be charged with the administration of this
chapter. The Mayor may form a Liquor Control Committee to assist in overseeing
his duties as Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $500 for
each violation, be subject to suspension or revocation of license privileges as
set forth in this chapter, and be subject possible prohibition from obtaining
future license privileges, as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 12-18-95)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application for license
   
111.03   License fees
   
111.04   Misrepresentation or fraud prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 480, passed 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for licenses shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall state
thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated, the kind of
article or merchandise to be peddled and the permanent address of the peddler.
(Ord. 480, passed 2-4-80)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for licenses shall be: For peddlers using a cart, wagon,
automobile or other vehicles, shall be $50 per person for a daily license.
   (B)   For peddlers not using any vehicle, the fee shall be $50 per person
for a daily license.
(Ord. 480, passed 2-4-80; Am. Ord. 908, passed 11-5-12)
§ 111.04 MISREPRESENTATION OR FRAUD PROHIBITED.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee, while acting
as a peddler in the municipality; or who shall barter, sell or peddle any
goods, wares or merchandise other than those specified in his application for a
license. In addition to the penalty set forth in §
10.99, the Mayor may revoke his license for an offense.
(Ord. 480, passed 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined no less than $10 nor more than $200 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 480, passed 2-4-80)
CHAPTER 112: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Operations generally
   
112.03   Permit to operate
   
112.04   Mobile food vendor permit application
   
112.05   Mobile food vendor permit prerequisites
   
112.06   Permit duration and fee
   
112.07   Cessation of business
   
112.08   Business insurance and indemnity
   
112.09   Permit issuance
   
112.10   Permit transferability
   
112.11   Permit identification
   
112.12   Safety and ordinance inspections
   
112.13   Location restrictions
   
112.14   Days and hours of operation
   
112.15   Special events
   
112.16   Additional taxing districts within the city
   
112.17   Tax revenue
   
112.18   Standards of conduct
   
112.19   Restriction on use and permits
   
112.20   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
112.21   Violations and penalties
   
112.22   Reservation of rights
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   BEVERAGE.  Any non-alcoholic liquid, hot or cold, intended for use in whole
or in part for human consumption. Alcohol beverage sales by mobile food vendor
units is not allowed.
   BRICK-AND-MORTAR BUSINESS.  A business lawfully operating at a fixed
location within a building in the city limits.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR and/or UNIT.
      (1)   A person who sells, serves, offers for sale, or gives away food or
beverages from any self-contained mobile unit, independent with respect to
water, sewer and power utilities, capable of moving or being moved, is meant to
be portable and is not permanently attached to the ground, consisting of an
enclosed truck, trailer, bus, or similar vehicle that contains equipment used
for sale and/or preparation of food or beverage merchandise and is closed up
when not in operation.
      (2)   A mobile ice cream truck, whose route is residential only, and that
does not park or locate in any one place for longer than ten minutes, is not
considered a mobile food vender unit for purposes of this chapter, but only as
it pertains to §
112.13.
   NOVELTY MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT.  A two-wheeled mobile unit that operates
within the city limits of Farmer City ten times or less a calendar year. The
City of Farmer City manager and clerk will be the sole arbiters whether any
specific vendor qualifies as a novelty mobile food vendor.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All outdoor areas that are not owned or leased by any
governmental agency or entity, including, but not limited to, streets,
alleyways, sidewalks, plazas, parking lots, or other areas adjacent to
buildings not owned by a governmental agency or entity.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All outdoor areas that are owned, or leased as lessee, by
the city or one of the city's departments, or upon which the city or one of its
departments has an easement or right-of-way including, but not limited to.
streets, alleyways sidewalks, plazas, parking lots or other areas adjacent to
buildings owned by the city or one of its departments.
   RESTAURANT.  A place where people pay to sit and eat food that is cooked or
baked and served on premises.
   SPECIAL EVENT.  Any event so designated by the City of Farmer City.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.02 OPERATIONS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.03 PERMIT TO OPERATE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the city without
first having secured a City of Farmer City permit to do so as provided by this
chapter.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each mobile food vendor unit.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.04 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a permit under this chapter shall submit a fully
completed application to the City Clerk at least 14 days prior to the proposed
date of utilizing the mobile food vendor unit in the city. Applicants may be
owners or operators of mobile food vendor units, or private entities. The
application must set forth or have attached the following information as
specified:
   (A)   The applicant's name, current physical address, phone number, email
address and date of birth;
   (B)   The name, current physical address, and phone number of the person or
entity the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of
such employment or representation. The name, if any, of the person or entity
that owns or operates the vehicle and/or trailer, if different from the name of
the mobile food vendor unit;
   (C)   The license plate number of the mobile food vendor unit vehicle to be
used to serve customers;
   (D)   The type of products to be sold;
   (E)   The place or places where the mobile food vendor unit will operate and
a written statement, if applicable, from the owner of any private business
property authorizing the applicant to use the property;
   (F)   The mobile food vendor unit may enter into a lease agreement with a
business property owner to have their mobile food vendor unit located long-term
on the business owner's property at the location of the business. At the time
of the application, the owner of the business property and the mobile food
vendor unit must notify the city of the arrangement, and the mobile food vendor
unit must follow all conditions and terms of this chapter; and
   (G)   The duration of the permit being sought.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.05 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT PREREQUISITES.
   An application for a permit under this chapter shall not be considered
unless proof of the following is provided with the application:
   (A)   A copy of a valid driver's license of the individual that will be
operating the mobile food vendor unit;
   (B)   A copy of the Illinois registration for the mobile food vendor unit;
   (C)   Proof of registration as a business with the Illinois Secretary of
State, if a corporation or limited liability company;
   (D)   Proof of a federal employer tax identification number;
   (E)   Proof of insurance in the amount required by this chapter;
   (F)   A liability insurance policy covering the subject vehicle and/or
trailer;
   (G)   A copy of the vehicle and/or trailer's registration;
   (H)   A copy of the Food Handler’s Certificate for each employee as required
by the Illinois Department of Public Health; and
   (I)   A copy of the proper mobile food vendor unit license from the Illinois
and/or Bureau County Health Department.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.06 PERMIT DURATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee in accordance with the schedule
set forth below. The year-to-year permit period runs from January 1 through
December 31.
   The following fee schedule goes into effect January 1, 2023:
      (1)   A One Day Permit: $25 (7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.).
      (2)   A Consecutive Six-Month Permit: $100.
      (3)   One Year Permit: $200.
   (B)   The following listed organizations and/or entities, while required to
obtain a permit under this chapter, are exempt from having to pay fees, so long
as the proceeds raised are used exclusively for religious, charitable or
educational purposes:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Benevolent organizations;
      (4)   Fraternal organizations; and
      (5)   Other similarly situated organizations. The city shall be the sole
arbiter of whether an organization or entity is such an organization.
   (C)   Also exempt from paying fees, but otherwise required to obtain a
permit, is any brick-and-mortar restaurant located within the city limits of
Farmer City, who also operates a mobile food vendor unit.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.07 CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   No deductions or rebates shall be allowed from the fee for a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter for any part of the term of which the permit holder
does not engage in such business.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.08 BUSINESS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Each applicant for a permit shall provide a certificate of insurance
to the City of Farmer City Clerk, insuring the applicant, and explicitly naming
the City of Farmer City as co-insured against liabilities and in the amounts
relative to such activity:
      (1)   Commercial general liability of not less than $500,000: and
      (2)   T'he insurance shall provide for 30 days prior written notice to
the City of Farmer City if coverage is changed, cancelled or non-renewed.
   (B)   The City of Farmer City shall be named as an additional insured on the
permittee's liability policy on a primary, non-contributory basis for any
liability arising directly or indirectly from the operation of a mobile food
vendor unit, and the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city
harmless from any loss that results directly or indirectly from the permit
issuance.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.09 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall within seven days of receipt of the completed
application issue the business permit to the applicant if the Clerk finds the
following:
      (1)   Compliance with all provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   The applicant has not had a prior permit issued under this chapter,
or any other similar permit or license authorized by a different governmental
entity, suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Failure of the Clerk to issue a permit within seven days of completion
of the application constitutes denial of the application.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.10 PERMIT TRANSFERABILITY.
   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.11 PERMIT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   All permits issued by the Clerk under this chapter shall be
prominently displayed on the mobile food vendor unit and shall be shown to any
person who requests to view the permit.
   (B)   Failure to display or exhibit a permit in accordance with this section
may be grounds for suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.12 SAFETY AND ORDINANCE INSPECTIONS.
   If, at any time, the City of Farmer City, or state or county officials
believe that a mobile food vendor unit operating within the city limits of
Farmer City is not in compliance with the mobile food vendor unit ordinance or
state or local health regulations, the mobile food vendor unit must allow
inspections as pertains to the following:
   (A)   City ordinances and police and fire department regulations. All
health, safety, and parking regulations applicable to mobile food vendors, must
be complied with at all times, as well as police and fire department
guidelines. City representatives, police, and fire personnel will be permitted
to inspect mobile food vendors to ensure all ordinances and regulations are
being complied with while operating within the city limits, whether on public
or private property. Failure to permit an inspection by a city representative,
police officer or fire department personnel may result in suspension or
revocation of the vendor permit.
   (B)   State. Mobile food vendors must ensure that they are following the
Illinois Department of Public Health FDA Food Code and all other state health,
safety or sanitation requirements applicable to mobile food, beverage and ice
cream vendors.
   (C)   County. Vendors must ensure they are following the Dewitt County
Health Department regulations and all other county health, safety or sanitation
code applicable to mobile food, beverage and ice cream vendors.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.13 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendor units.
      (1)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate in an alleyway.
      (2)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate on the private property of
a business unless the private property business owner has provided the mobile
food vendor unit permission to operate on said property.
      (3)   No mobile food vendor unit shall operate within a one block radius
of a special event unless prior approval has been granted by either the
operator of the special event or by the City of Farmer City.
      (4)   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located in a manner that would
impede or prevent use of any City of Farmer City owned property, or which would
endanger the safety or property of the public.
      (5)   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located within 15 feet of any
fire hydrant.
      (6)   No mobile food vendor unit operating on private business property
shall displace required parking, handicap parking or displace landscaping, nor
block any drives, parking access aisles, fire lanes, sidewalks, or accessible
routes required for private parking.
      (7)   No mobile food vendor shall park near an intersection and in a
manner that blocks the line-of-sight of drivers using adjacent roadways.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.14 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Mobile food vendor units are allowed to operate in the City of Farmer
City seven days a week, from 7:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m., whether on public
property or on the property of a private business however:
   (B)   Mobile food vendor units that set up at a public property location
must not do so earlier than 6:30 a.m. and they must vacate the premises no
later than 9:30 p.m.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.15 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Special events, as defined, are designated by the City of Farmer City:
   (A)   From time to time, there may be a business, or a community service-
related organization, that wants to hold a special event on public property
that is not sponsored by the City of Farmer City or the Farmer City Chamber of
Commerce or other entity, where mobile food vendor unit(s) are preferred.
Special events, as such, will first be applied for via a City of Farmer City
Special Event Application no later than two weeks prior to the special event,
on which the request for a mobile food vendor unit(s) shall be documented. It
is the special event organizer and the mobile food vendor's responsibility to
ensure approval by the city of the special event before advertising and holding
any such special event.
   (B)   Mobile food vendor unit limitations regarding locations, alcohol sales
and hours of operation do not apply to special events on public property that
are sponsored by the City of Farmer City, City of Farmer City Tourism or the
Farmer City Chamber of Commerce. Mobile food vendor units must comply with all
other terms and conditions provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.16 ADDITIONAL TAXING DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CITY.
   Farmer City Fire Protection District. Blue Ridge School District, Santa Ana
Township, DeWitt County:
   (A)   Mobile food vendor units are allowed to operate on properties owned
and maintained by the aforementioned taxing bodies, if respective of zoning,
via invitation and permission of the taxing body, so long as the event occurs
on the property of the taxing body, within the City of Farmer City, and the
event benefits the taxing body that is hosting the event. Mobile food vendor
units must comply with all other terms and conditions provided for in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.17 TAX REVENUE.
   All sales by mobile food vendor units operating anywhere in the city that
are subject to sales and use tax, and that occur while operating within the
city limits of Farmer City, must be reported with required payment to the
Illinois Department of Revenue, with the City of Farmer City identified as the
point of sale.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.18 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   All mobile food vendor units shall conform to the following standards of
conduct:
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall conduct themselves at all times in an
orderly and lawful manner, and shall not make, or cause to be made, any
unreasonable noise of such volume as to be in violation of the City of Farmer
City Noise Ordinance.
   (B)   A device may not be used that amplifies sounds or draws attention to a
mobile food vendor unit by an aural means or a light producing device such as
bull horns or strobe lights.
   (C)   No mobile food vendor unit may be permanently or temporarily affixed
to any object, including but not limited to buildings, trees, telephone poles,
streetlight poles, traffic signal poles or fire hydrants.
   (D)   No mobile food vendor unit may be used to advertise any product which
is not authorized to be sold from that unit.
   (E)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall protect against littering and shall
have both an adequate trash receptacle and a separate receptacle for recyclable
materials.
      (1)   The trash and recyclable receptacles shall be emptied sufficiently
often to allow disposal of litter and trash by the public at any time.
      (2)   The trash and recyclable receptacles on the mobile food vendor unit
shall not be emptied into trash or recyclable receptacles owned by the City of
Farmer City.
      (3)   Liquid from the mobile food vendor unit shall not be discharged on
or in a city sewer or drain or elsewhere on city property, nor on private
property.
   (F)   Before leaving any location, each mobile food vendor unit shall first
pick up, remove and dispose of all trash, refuse and/or recyclable material,
including products spilt on the ground within 20 feet of the mobile food vendor
unit.
   (G)   No mobile food vendor unit shall expose any pedestrian to any undue
safety or health hazards nor shall it be maintained so as to create a public
nuisance.
   (H)   Mobile food vendor units shall not be stored, parked or left overnight
on any city property.
   (I)   Foods, oils and greases shall never be discharged into the city's
sewer or storm drains, or city owned trash receptacles, nor on any public or
private property.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.19 RESTRICTION ON USE AND PERMITS.
   The City of Farmer City has exclusive authority to restrict the use of
mobile food vendor units and the issuance of permits for mobile food vendor
units under the following conditions:
   (A)   The city may restrict the use of mobile food vendor units in certain
designated areas of the city at any time in the event of an emergency declared
by the mayor, the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief and/or and duly appointed
designee: and
   (B)   Absent an emergency, the city may restrict the use of mobile food
vendor units in areas that would typically allow operation after providing
affected mobile food vendor unit permit holders written notice of the
restriction at least 24 hours in advance of the restriction going into effect.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.20 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any mobile food vendor unit permit issued under this chapter may be
suspended or revoked by the Mayor if the Mayor finds any of the following to be
true:
      (1)   The vendor failed to permit an inspection by a city representative,
and/or police officer or fire department personnel or by the county or state
health department.
      (2)   An inspection reveals that the vendor is not operating in a manner
that is safe to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
      (3)   The mobile food vendor unit is operating or has operated in a
location within the city that is not permitted.
      (4)   The mobile food vendor unit failed to abide by a city official's or
police officer's request to relocate due to the vendor blocking, obstructing or
interfering with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian flow.
      (5)   An operator of the mobile food vendor unit vehicle is convicted of
moving violations while operating under a mobile food vendor unit permit while
in the City of Farmer City.
      (6)   The mobile food vendor unit has failed to maintain all the
certificates, licenses and permits required by state, county or local
ordinances, or is not in compliance with the state, county or city's laws and
regulations, including but not limited to the Illinois Department of Public
Health Food Service Sanitation Code and any other state, county or city
regulations that apply to mobile food vendor units.
      (7)   If a mobile food vendor unit fails to report to the Illinois
Department of Revenue, for the purpose of sales tax, that Farmer City is the
point of sale on all transactions that occur while operating in the City of
Farmer City, which would result in the City of Farmer City not receiving due
sales tax revenue.
      (8)   The mobile food unit or unit has otherwise violated or failed to
comply with this chapter.
   (B)   Appeal. If the Mayor suspends or revokes the mobile food vendor unit's
permit, City of Farmer City staff will mail a notice of suspension or
revocation to the address listed on the permit application and will state the
reasons for the suspension or revocation. The mobile food vendor unit may
appeal a decision of the Mayor to the City Council within 14 days of the
mailing date. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 30 days, and the
decision of the City Council will be final.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.21 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   In addition to suspension or revocation of a permit, any person,
partnership, limited liability company or corporation that violates any
provision of this chapter, shall also be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Operating a mobile food vendor unit without a valid City of Farmer
City permit.
   First Offense             $400
   Second Offense within any 12-month period      $500
   Third Offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period           $750
   (B)   Failure to comply with any other provision of this chapter:
   First Offense             Written Warning
   Second Offense within any 12-month period      $200
   Third Offense within any 12-month period      $400
   Fourth Offense, or each thereafter, within any
   12-month period           $750
   (C)   If a mobile food vendor is fined a monetary amount under either
division above, the mobile food vendor unit's permit will be suspended until
such time that the fine is paid in full.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
§ 112.22 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   The City of Farmer City reserves the right to change, modify, clarify
any section and sub-section of this chapter at any time deemed necessary.
   (B)   If an unforeseen issue presents itself that is not addressed in this
chapter, the City of Farmer City reserves its sole right to resolve at its
discretion.
   (C)   Any change or modification or clarification to any section and sub-
section of this chapter that is deemed to be restrictive to mobile food vendor
units, will go into effect the following January upon passage of an amendment
to this chapter.
   (D)   Any change or modification or clarification to any section and sub-
section of this chapter that is deemed to be beneficial to mobile food vendor
units shall be effective immediately, upon passage of an amendment to the
chapter.
   (E)   The foregoing notwithstanding, any change or modification that arises
out of a health or safety concern, regardless whether it benefits or further
restricts mobile food vendor units, shall be effective immediately, upon
passage of an amendment to the chapter.
(Ord. 1087, passed 9-6-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.001   Definitions
   
130.002   Intent
   
130.003   Knowledge
   
130.004   Recklessness
   
130.005   Negligence
   
130.006   Attempt
 
   
130.098   Settlement of violations prior to suit being filed; minimum fines
   
130.099   Penalty
   
130.100   Minimum fine schedule for certain violations
§ 130.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. Includes a failure or omission to take action. (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §
2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender. (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of any penal statute of this city or state. (ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 2-12)
§ 130.002 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or engage in
that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4)
§ 130.003 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully”, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5)
§ 130.004 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the term wantonly,
unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6)
§ 130.005 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7)
§ 130.006 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act that
constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that because
of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible for the
accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided for the offense attempted but, except for an attempt to commit
the offense defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 33A-2:
      (1)   The sentence for attempt to commit first degree murder is the
sentence for a Class X felony, except that
         (a)   An attempt to commit first degree murder when at least one of
the aggravating factors specified in ILCS Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-8-1(a)(1)(c)
(iii)-(v) is present is a Class X felony for which the sentence shall be a term
of imprisonment of not less than 20 years and not more than 80 years;
         (b)   An attempt to commit first degree murder while armed with a
firearm is a Class X felony for which 15 years shall be added to the term of
imprisonment imposed by the court;
         (c)   An attempt to commit first degree murder during which the person
personally discharged a firearm is a Class X felony for which 20 years shall be
added to the term of imprisonment imposed by the court;
         (d)   An attempt to commit first degree murder which the person
personally discharged a firearm that proximately caused great bodily harm,
permanent disability, permanent disfigurement, or death to another person, is a
Class X felony for which 25 years or up to a term of natural life shall be
added to the term of imprisonment imposed by the court; and
         (e)   If the defendant proves by a preponderance of the evidence at
sentencing that, at the time of the attempted murder, he or she was acting
under a sudden and intense passion resulting from serious provocation by the
individual whom the defendant endeavored to kill, or another, and, had the
individual the defendant endeavored to kill died, the defendant would have
negligently or accidentally
caused that death, then the sentence for the attempted murder is the sentence
for a Class 1 felony.
      (2)   The sentence for attempt to commit a Class X felony is the sentence
for a Class 1 felony;
      (3)   The sentence for attempt to commit a Class 1 felony is the sentence
for a Class 2 felony;
      (4)   The sentence for attempt to commit a Class 2 felony is the sentence
for a Class 3 felony; and
      (5)   The sentence for attempt to commit any felony other than those
specified in items (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this subsection (C) is the
sentence for a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 130.098 SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATIONS PRIOR TO SUITE BEING FILED; MINIMUM FINES.
   (A)   A person accused of violating a section of this code set forth in the
city’s fine schedule as described in §
130.100 may be permitted to pay the minimum fine which is set forth in the
city’s fine schedule as described in §
130.100 as settlement of such violation if payment is made within the time and
in the manner set forth in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the city who has been designated as a
“peace officer” who issues a notice to appear to a person for an offense under
this code for which the minimum fine is set forth in the city’s fine schedule
as described in §
130.100 shall indicate on such notice to appear whether the person may pay the
minimum fine set forth in such fine schedule as described in §
130.100 as settlement of such violation. Among other aggravating circumstances,
a person should generally not be permitted to settle a violation of this code
set forth in the city’s fine schedule as described in §
130.100 if such person has settled or been convicted of any violation of an
ordinance of the city within the most previous two-year period.
   (C)   Payments in settlement of violations set forth in the city’s fine
schedule as described in §
130.100 shall be made within 14 calendar days after the date that the notice to
appear was issued to the person accused of such violation. A payment shall be
considered made within such 14 calendar days if the payment is actually
received by the city by 5:00 p.m. on the fourteenth day following the date the
notice to
appear was issued. Payments shall be made by cash or certified check, money
order or cashier's check made payable to the city, or by other monetary means
under such conditions as the City Manager shall specify.
   (D)   If a person pays the minimum fine pursuant to this section, then no
complaint charging the person with the particular violation shall be filed in
the circuit court.
   (E)   The minimum fine for those violations listed in the city’s fine
schedule as described in §
130.100 shall be as set forth in §
130.100 in lieu of the
minimum fine set forth in other provisions of this code.
(Ord. 984, passed 9-18-15)
§ 130.099 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500.
§ 130.100 MINIMUM FINE SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.
   Under and pursuant to this section, the minimum fine schedule for violating
the sections of the code set forth in this schedule below shall be as follows:
Section Section Title Minimum Fine
Section Section Title                                             Minimum Fine
Chapter 131 - Offenses Pertaining to Property
131.02  Trespass to Land                                          $50
131.03  Damaging City Property                                    $50
Chapter 132 - Offenses Against Public Order
132.01  Disorderly Conduct                                        $50
132.02  Curfew for Minors; Hours; Exceptions; Enforcement         $50
132.03  Public Intoxication                                       $50
Chapter 133 - Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
133.01  Resisting or Obstructing a Police Officer, Firefighter or $50
        Correctional Institution Employee
133.02  Refusing to Aid an Officer                                $50
133.03  Tampering with Public Notice                              $50
Chapter 134 - Offenses Against Public Morals
134.01  Public Indecency                                          $50
134.02  Obscenity                                                 $50
134.03  Harmful Material                                          $50
Chapter 135 - Gambling Offenses
135.02  Gambling                                                  $50
135.03  Keeping a Gambling Place                                  $50
Chapter 136 - Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
136.02  Dumping or Depositing of Litter Prohibited; Exceptions    $50
136.03  Dumping or Depositing of Litter from Motor Vehicle        $50
        Prohibited
136.04  Accumulation of Litter Prohibited                         $50
136.06  Receptacles Required in Public Area                       $100
Chapter 137 - Weapons
137.01  Unlawful Use of Weapons                                   $50
137.03  Unlawful Possession of Firearms and Firearm Ammunition    $50
137.04  Defacing Identification Marks of Firearms                 $50
Chapter 90 - Animals
90.03   Animals Running at Large                                  $50
90.04   Disturbing the Peace; Loudness                            $50
90.05   Cruelty to Animals                                        $50
90.08   Inoculation and Tags                                      $50
90.09   Animal Bites                                              $50
90.10   Animals—Removal of Excrement                            $100
90.11   Keeping Animals Other Than Domesticated Pets              $50
90.12   Keeping of Bees and Inconveniences to Others              $50
90.13   Keeping of Dogs and Cats                                  $50
90.14   Prohibited at Large; Responsibility of Owners             $50
Chapter 91 - Nuisances; Abandoned Vehicles
91.03   Maintaining Public Nuisance Prohibited                    $50
91.15   Public Nuisance Affecting Health                          $50
91.17   Public Nuisance Affecting Peace and Safety                $50
91.18   Open Burning                                              $50
91.19   Permitting or Depositing Garbage or Debris on Property    $50
91.30   Permitting Weeds to Grow Prohibited; Nuisance             $50
91.31   Height                                                    $50
91.32   Notice to Remove; Abatement                               $50
91.46   Abandonment of Vehicles                                   $50
91.48   Inoperable Motor Vehicles                                 $50
91.99   Abatement Penalty                                         $250
Chapter 92 - Streets and Sidewalks
92.99   Snowmobile Routes Penalty                                 $50
 
(Ord. 984, passed 9-18-15; Am. Ord. 986, passed 9-18-17)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Reserved
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging city property
§ 131.01 RESERVED.
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or
she:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building;
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to the
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land;
         (e)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real estate
required by subsection (l) of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1505.8(l) before the
date and time set forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock, or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry
is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For purposes of division (A)(1)(a) of this section, this section
shall not apply to being in a building which is open to the public while the
building is open to the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall
this section apply to a person who enters a public building under the
reasonable belief that the building is still open to the public.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) of this section if he or she has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing including a valid court order as
defined by subsection (7) of Section 112A-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
of 1963 granting remedy (2) of subsection (b) of Section 112A-14 of that Code,
or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously
posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the land or the forbidden part
thereof.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (D) of this section, as an
alternative to the posting of real property as set forth in division (B) of
this secitno, the owner or lessee of any real property may post the property by
placing identifying purple marks on trees or posts around the area to be
posted. Each purple mark shall be:
         (a)   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
         (b)   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet, six inches high. Posts so marked shall be placed not more
than 36 feet apart and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the
property. Prior to applying a cap or mark which is visible from both sides of a
fence shared by different property owners or lessees, all such owners or
lessees shall concur in the decision to post their own property. 
      (2)   Nothing in this division (C) shall be construed to authorize the
owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree or
post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any applicable
law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration, regulation,
restriction, contract, or instrument.
   (D)   Any owner or lessee who marks his or her real property using the
method described in division (C) of this section must also provide notice as
described in division (B) of this section. The public of this state shall be
informed of the provisions of division (C) of this section by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture and the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
These departments shall conduct an information campaign for the general public
concerning the interpretation and implementation of division (C) of this
section. The information shall inform the public about the marking requirements
and the applicability of division (C) of this section including information
regarding the size requirements of the markings as well as the manner in which
the markings shall be displayed. The departments shall also include information
regarding the requirement that, until the date this subsection becomes
inoperative, any owner or lessee who chooses to mark his or her property using
paint, must also comply with one of the notice requirements listed in division
(B) of this section. The departments may prepare a brochure or may disseminate
the information through agency websites. Non-governmental organizations
including, but not limited to, the Illinois Forestry Association, Illinois Tree
Farm and the Walnut Council may help to disseminate the information regarding
the requirements and applicability of division (C) of this section based on
materials provided by the departments. This division (D) is inoperative on and
after January 1, 2013.
   (E)   Divisions (C) and (D) do not apply to real property located in a
municipality of over 2,000,000 inhabitants.
    (F)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker
or otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
   (G)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if he or
she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial properties
located within any municipality. For the purpose of this division, UNOCCUPIED
AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate in
which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least two years; and
which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at least one year;
and BEAUTIFIES means to landscape, clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated
conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
   (H)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (G) of this section.
   (I)   Mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee exceptions.
      (1)   Mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing, or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
      (2)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing,
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (I) only, ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of the
mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5.
   (J)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division,
EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or is
reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(d) of this section does not apply to a peace officer
or other official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (L)   A violation of divisions (A)(1)(a) through (d) of this section is a
Class B misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(1)(f) of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (M)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(1)(f) of this section. A person may also be liable to the
owner for court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. The measure of damages
shall be: the actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in ILCS Ch. 525,
Act 30, §§ 3.11 and 3.14; twice the actual damages if the owner has previously
notified the person to cease trespassing; or in any other case, the actual
damages, but not less than $50. If the person operating the vehicle is under
the age of 16, the owner of the vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the
minor are jointly and severally liable. For the purposes of this division:
      (1)   LAND includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land,
fallow land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil
nature preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or
private roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
      (2)   OWNER means the person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant.
      (3)   VEHICLE has the same meaning as provided under §
70.01 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (N)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to serve process under ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §
2-202; or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the circuit court.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 131.03 DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any city property without the city’s consent.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage city property
without the city’s consent.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on city land without the consent of the
city.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on city land or in a city building any stink bomb
or any offensive-smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere with the
use by the city of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
Penalty, see §
130.099
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew for minors; hours; exceptions; enforcement
   
132.03   Public intoxication
   
132.04   Hours at all city parks
   
132.05   Truancy prohibited
   
132.06   Trick-or-treat hours, rules and guidelines
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the fire
department of any city, town, village or fire protection district a false alarm
of fire, knowing at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable
ground for believing that the fire exists;
      (3)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in a place where its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in the place;
      (3.5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a threat of
destruction of a school building or school property, or a threat of violence,
death, or bodily harm directed against persons at a school, school function, or
school event, whether or not school is in session;
      (4)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been
committed;
      (5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to any public safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe
that transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public; or
      (6)   Calls the number "911" or transmits or causes to be transmitted in
any manner to a public safety agency for the purpose of making or transmitting
a false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call
or transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for
making the call or transmission and further knows that the call or transmission
could result in the emergency response of any public safety agency;
      (7)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to the Department of Children and Family Services under Section 4 of the Abused
and Neglected Child Reporting Act;
      (8)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to the Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act, the
Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, the ID/DD Community Care
Act, or the MC/DD Act;
      (9)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the police
department or fire department of any municipality or fire protection district,
or any privately owned and operated ambulance service, a false request for an
ambulance, emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency medical
technician-paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the assistance is required;
      (10)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
under Article II of Public Act 83-1432;
      (11)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      (12)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act or as an employee of the collection agency, and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
      (13)   Starts a fight or engages in a fight with another in the city.
      (14)   In a public or private place, engages in violent, abusive,
indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud or otherwise disorderly
conduct under circumstances in which the conduct tends to cause or provoke a
disturbance
   (B)   Sentence.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) above is a Class C misdemeanor. A
violation of division (A)(5) or (A)(11) above is a Class A misdemeanor. A
violation of division (A)(8) or (A)(10) above is a Class B misdemeanor. A
violation of subsection (a)(2), (a)(3.5), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(7), or (a)(9) of
this Section is a Class 4 felony. A violation of subsection (a)(3) of this
Section is a Class 3 felony, for which a fine of not less than $3,000 and no
more than $10,000 shall be assessed in addition to any other penalty imposed.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(12) above is a business offense and
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $3,000. A second or subsequent
violation of division (A)(5) or (A)(7) above is a Class 4 felony. A third or
subsequent violation of division (A)(11) above is a Class 4 felony.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of disorderly conduct to perform community
service for not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours, if community service
is available in the jurisdiction and is funded and approved by the county board
of the county where the offense was committed. In addition, whenever any person
is placed on supervision for an alleged offense under this section, the
supervision shall be conditioned upon the performance of the community service.
      (2)   This division (C) does not apply when the court imposes a sentence
of incarceration.
   (D)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, the court shall
order any person convicted of disorderly conduct under division (A)(3) above
involving a false alarm of a threat that a bomb or explosive device has been
placed in a school that requires an emergency response to reimburse the unit of
government that employs the emergency response officer or officers that were
dispatched to the school for the cost of the response. If the court determines
that the person convicted of disorderly conduct that requires an emergency
response to a school is indigent, the provisions of this division (D) do not
apply.
   (E)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, the court shall
order any person convicted of disorderly conduct under division (A)(3.5) or (A)
(6) above to reimburse the public agency for the reasonable costs of the
emergency response by the public agency up to $10,000. If the court determines
that the person convicted of disorderly conduct under division (A)(3.5) or (A)
(6) is indigent, the provisions of this division (E) do not apply.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, EMERGENCY RESPONSE means any
condition that results in, or could result in, the response of a public
official in an authorized emergency vehicle, any condition that jeopardizes or
could jeopardize public safety and results in, or could result in, the
evacuation of any area, building, structure, vehicle, or of any other place
that any person may enter, or any incident requiring a response by a police
officer, a firefighter, a State Fire Marshal employee, or an ambulance.
(Am. Ord. 1063, passed 5-3-21)
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1
§ 132.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS; HOURS; EXCEPTIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately- owned place of business operated for
a profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) of this section
that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Mature Minors Act, as amended.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) of this
section that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) of this section is present.
   (E)   Penalties. A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty
of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation
is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 488, passed 1-5-81; Am. Ord. 795, passed 4-5-04)
§ 132.03 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall within the city consume intoxicating liquor while
located on the sidewalks, streets, parking lots or other municipal or public
property in the city or permit any open bottle, container, can or other utensil
containing intoxicating liquor to be placed or located upon any
sidewalk,street, municipal parking lot or other municipal or public property in
the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the consumption on the Farmer City
fair grounds of beer sold by the holder of a beer license issued by the city
authorizing the sale of beer on the Farmer City fair grounds.
(Ord. 487, passed 1-5-81; Am. Ord. 493, passed 4-20-81) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 132.04 HOURS AT ALL CITY PARKS.
   (A)   All city parks shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Organizations wishing to use public parks beyond normal hours shall
request approval prior to the event.
(Ord. 949, passed 5-4-15; Am. Ord. 966, passed 9-19-16)
§ 132.05 TRUANCY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. No person who is required by law to attend school and who
is subject to the compulsory attendance requirements of the Illinois School
Code and/or who is enrolled in a public, private (including a home school) or
parochial school within the corporate limits of the city, shall absent himself
or herself from attendance at school during the hours in which he or she is
enrolled. Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of
the offense of truancy and shall be subject to the penalties set forth herein.
   (B)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any custodial parent
or guardian of any unemancipated person under 18 years of age to allow or
permit such person to violate the provisions of division (A) above. The fact
that prior to the present offense a parent, guardian or custodian was informed
in writing by a law enforcement officer of a separate violation of division (A)
by the same minor occurring within 90 days prior to the present offense shall
constitute a rebuttable presumption that such parent, guardian or custodian
allowed or permitted the present violation.
   (C)   Contributing to truancy. No person 18 years of age or older shall
knowingly or willfully cause, aid or encourage any person to be or to become a
truant, knowingly or willfully commit an act which directly tends to render any
person a truant, or knowingly or willfully fails to do that which will directly
tend to prevent such state of truancy.
   (D)   Defenses to truancy. Those defenses, exceptions and valid causes for
absence, as set forth in the Illinois School Code for compulsory attendance or
enrollment in school, shall apply as defenses to violations of this section.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person 13 years of age or older who violates any
provision of this section shall be subject to a penalty of no more than $100 or
community service or both, for each such violation. If the violator is under 13
years of age, the parent or custodian of the violator is subject to the fine or
community service, or both, for each such violation.
(Ord. 1010, passed 8-6-18)
§ 132.06 TRICK-OR-TREAT HOURS, RULES AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Halloween/trick-or-treat will be held on October 31, regardless of
what day of the week it is.
   (B)   Trick-or-treat hours will be 5:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on October 31.
(Ord. 2020-1054, passed 10-5-20)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a police officer, firefighter, or
correctional institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
   
133.04   Failure to register or renew registration as a sex offender
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A POLICE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   (1)   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by
one known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity
commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter, or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter, or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4 felony.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE means
any person employed to supervise and control inmates incarcerated in a
penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of correction,
police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or place for the
incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses or awaiting
trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a violation of
probation, a violation of parole, a violation of aftercare release, a violation
of mandatory supervised release, or awaiting a hearing or preliminary hearing
on setting the conditions of pretrial release, or who are sexually dangerous
persons or who are sexually violent persons; and FIREFIGHTER means any
individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a regularly constituted fire
department of a municipality or fire protection district who performs fire
fighting duties, including, but not limited to, the fire chief, assistant fire
chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person, hose person, pipe person, and
any other member of a regularly constituted fire department. FIREFIGHTER also
means a person employed by the Office of the State Fire Marshal to conduct
arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building, or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
   (D)   A person shall not be subject to arrest for resisting arrest under
this section unless there is an underlying offense for which the person was
initially subject to arrest.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly reasonably fail to aid a
person known by him to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly
and without lawful authority alters, destroys, defaces, removes, or conceals
any public notice posted according to law, during the time for which the notice
was to remain posted.
   (B)   Sentence. Tampering with public notice is a petty offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9)
§ 133.04 FAILURE TO REGISTER OR RENEW REGISTRATION AS A SEX OFFENDER.
   A person who is required by law to register as a sex offender with the City
of Farmer City Police Department shall do so on or by January 1 of each year
but a person who fails to register when required shall be guilty of the offense
of failure to register. A person guilty of failure to register shall be fined a
minimum of $150.00.
(Ord. 1064, passed 5-3-21)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
   
134.04   Public urination and defecation prohibited
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      (3)   Breast-feeding infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE. For purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   (C)   Sentence.  Public indecency is a Class A misdemeanor. A person
convicted of a third or subsequent violation for public indecency is guilty of
a Class 4 felony. Public indecency is a Class 4 felony if committed by a person
18 years of age or older who is on or within 500 feet of elementary or
secondary school grounds when children are present on the grounds.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,§ 11-30) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene
writing, picture, record, or other representation or embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   “Obscene” defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement, or possession of a mold,
engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse, when, taken as a whole, it:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors,
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors, and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value
for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically, or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY." The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
         SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
         SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if such person be a female, breast.
         SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or
gives away to a minor, knowing that the minor is under the age of 18 or failing
to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person's true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation; or
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person's true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver's license, birth
certificate or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
      (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or
guardianship relationship with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of such organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
      (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet
or similar means of communication, and delivery of such harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, internet or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: "NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the State."
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom such material was sold, lent, distributed or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent offense is a Class 4 felony.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false
or not actually his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing,
or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor. If that person utilized a computer web camera, cellular
telephone, or any other type of device to manufacture the harmful material,
then each offense is a Class 4 felony.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 134.04 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall urinate or defecate on any street, alley, sidewalk,
parking lot, floor of any public building, any building where the public
gathers, a public or private location where such act is visible to members of
the public, or in any other place commonly open to the public except in such
public place that has been specifically designated as a restroom.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEFECATION. The excrement of human fecal matter.
      PUBLIC. Any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be
viewed by others.
      URINATION. The discharge of urine from the human body.
   (C)   Prohibition. The discharge of human urine and/or fecal matter by any
person on public property, or any public or private property where such act is
visible to others.
   (D)   Affirmative defense. None.
   (E)   Penalty. Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court
shall impose upon the violator a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500
per offense.
(Ord. 941-A, passed 9-2-14)
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this division (3), a CRANE GAME
is an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively
with merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to
toys, novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value
which is not more than $25.
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this division (4), a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing, or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon, or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical, or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player.
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player's
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player's score.
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded.
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25.
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment, or licensed veterans establishment licensed in accordance with
the Video Gaming Act.
      (6)   INTERNET means an interactive computer service or system or an
information service, system, or access software provider that provides or
enables computer access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes,
but is not limited to, an information service, system, or access software
provider that provides access to a network system commonly known as the
internet, or any comparable system or service and also includes, but is not
limited to, a world wide web page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or
chat area on any interactive computer service or system or other online
service.
      (7)   ACCESS and COMPUTER have the meanings ascribed to them in ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 16D-2.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the Illinois Banking Act, § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act, § 42.7
of the Illinois Credit Union Act, § 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C.
25a), or § 4 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463).
   POLICY GAME. An scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
city, he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or
any political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953, or by or through a person exempt from such
registrationunder § 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953
is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the courses of a bet or
wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell,
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell, or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document, or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticker or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
division (B)(6) and (7) of this section.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act, by manufacturers, distributors, and terminal operators
licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the State of Illinois in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq. This exemption includes activities
conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the
provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules;
      (7)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the internet for a lottery
conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in ILCS Ch.
20, Act 1605, § 7.12;
      (8)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (9)   Raffles when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§
1 et seq.; and
      (10)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (11)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and jar Games Act;
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans’ establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act,
ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40;
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate
   (C)   Sentence. Gambling is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent
conviction under divisions (A)(3) through (A)(12) of this section is a Class 4
felony.
   (D)   Circumstantial evidence.  In prosecutions under this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(Am. Ord. 902, passed 5-7-12) Penalty, see §
130.099
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the Illinois
Gambling Act, the Sports Wagering Act, or the Video Gaming Act. Any person who
knowingly permits any premises or property owned or occupied by him or under
his control to be used as a gambling place commits a Class A misdemeanor. Each
subsequent offense is a Class 4 felony.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   Such premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such;
      (2)   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the State of
Illinois or any subdivision or public agency thereof authorizing the serving of
food or liquor on such premises shall be void; and no license, permit or
certificate so cancelled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of 60
days thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be
reissued such license for oneyear from his conviction and, after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
such license; and
      (3)   Such premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for, and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3)
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a GAMBLING
DEVICE, and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the
Illinois State Police or by the city. As used in this section, a GAMBLING
DEVICE includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device
constructed for the reception of money or other thing of value and so
constructed as to return, or to cause someone to return, on chance to the
player thereof money, property or a right to receive money or property. With
the exception of any device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful
use, no gambling device shall be forfeited or destroyed unless an individual
with a property interest in said device knows of the unlawful use of the
device.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein such seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
such seizure occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a), (b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
   
136.08   Possession of tobacco and alternative nicotine products by minors
prohibited
   
136.09   Possession of cannabis prohibited
   
136.10   Possession of drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
136.11   Possession of alcohol by person under the age of 21 prohibited
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
136.01 through
136.07 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code), motor
vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as defined in § 3.360 of
the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360), or anything
else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned
or otherwise disposed of improperly.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3(a))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Chapter 70 of this Code of ordinances.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this city unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting pursuant to special cleanup days established
by the Board of Trustees; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including, but not limited to, potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360 of the Environmental
Protection Act, when the emergency situation no longer exists.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this division, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed in this division are in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities
otherwise imposed or conferred by law.
      (4)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in Section 50 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway Act.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4, 8 )
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in this city except as permitted under §
136.02 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this division, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed in this division are in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities
otherwise imposed or conferred by law.
      (4)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in Section 50 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway Act.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 5, 8)
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this division, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed in this division are in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities
otherwise imposed or conferred by law.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 6, 8)
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights- of-way and rest areas located thereon.
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating this section. If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his property as indicated by the condition and appearance of
that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide
sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of
that fact by written notice from the police, he shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense committed after the
first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (B)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
   (C)   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not
in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law.
   (D)   An individual convicted of violating §§
136.02 and
136.03 by disposing of litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any
other penalty, be required to maintain litter control for 30 days over a
designated portion of that highway, including, at the discretion of the agency
having jurisdiction over the section of highway in question, the site where the
offense occurred, as provided in Section 50 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway
Act.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8)
§ 136.08 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS BY MINORS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to possess any tobacco products or alternative nicotine products;
provided that the possession by a person under the age of 21 years under the
direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of
the parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
   (B)   Definition of tobacco products. TOBACCO PRODUCTS is defined as any
substances containing tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes,
cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff or smokeless tobaccos including chewing tobacco and
dipping tobacco.
   (C)   Definition of alternative nicotine product. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE
PRODUCT is defined as a product or device not consisting of or containing
tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine, by chewing,
smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing or otherwise.
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT excludes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco or other
tobacco products, as these terms are defined under state law and any product
approved by the U.S. FDA as a non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco
cessation or dependence product or for other medical purposes and is marketed
and sold solely for that purpose.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person 13 years of age or older who violates any
provision of this section shall be subject to a penalty of no more than $100 or
community service or both, for each such violation. If the violator is under 13
years of age, the parent or custodian of the violator is subject to the fine or
community service, or both, for each such violation.
(Ord. 1009, passed 8-6-18; Am. Ord. 1104, passed 11-6-23)
§ 136.09 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to possess any substance containing cannabis.
   (B)   Definition of cannabis. For the purpose of this section, CANNABIS
includes any substance defined as CANNABIS in the Illinois Cannabis Control
Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 1104, passed 11-6-23)
§ 136.10 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. Other than as allowed under state law, it shall be unlawful
for any person to knowingly possess within the corporate limits of the city any
item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it for the purpose of
unlawfully ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a
controlled substance into the human body.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall
include and have the following meanings:
      CANNABIS. Includes any substance defined as cannabis in the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes any substance defined as a controlled
substance in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§
201 et seq.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any object or device used, designed for use or
intended for use in unlawfully ingesting, smoking, administering, or storing
cannabis or a controlled substance. For the purposes of this section, DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, plastic, glass, stone or ceramic pipes, with or
without screens;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips;
         (f)   Cocaine spoons and vials;
         (g)   Bongs; and
         (h)   One-hitters.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
   (D)   Forfeiture. Drug paraphernalia as defined herein, seized by police
officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice to appear for a
violation of this section, shall be forfeited to the city upon a conviction for
violation of this section, or upon payment of a minimum fine in settlement of
the violation.
(Ord. 1104, passed 11-6-23)
§ 136.11 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to possess or consume any alcoholic beverage, except for the possession
or consumption in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or under
the direct supervision and approval of a parent or guardian in the privacy of
their home.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 1104, passed 11-6-23)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Defacing identification marks of firearms
   
137.05   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Statutory reference:
   Firearm owners identification card, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 1 et seq.
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas; or
      (2)   (a)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully
against another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto,
broken bottle or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous
or deadly weapon or instrument of like character; or
         (b)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully
against another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship; or
      (3)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older; or
      (4)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person except when on his or her land or in his own abode, legal dwelling,
or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of another
person as an invitee with that person's permission, any pistol, revolver, stun
gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(4) does not apply
to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the following
conditions:
            (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state; or
            (b)   Are not immediately accessible; or
            (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card; or
            (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act; or
      (5)   Sets a spring gun; or
      (6)   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      (7)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries:
         (a)   A machine gun, which shall be defined for the purposes of this
division (A)(7) as any weapon, which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be
readily restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot without manually
reloading by a single function of the trigger, including the frame or receiver
of any such weapon, or sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses, or carries
any combination of parts designed or intended for use in converting any weapon
into a machine gun, or any combination or parts from which a machine gun can be
assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person;
         (b)   Any rifle having one or more barrels less than 16 inches in
length or a shotgun having one or more barrels less than 18 inches in length or
any weapon made from a rifle or shotgun, whether by alteration, modification,
or otherwise, if such a weapon as modified has an overall length of less than
26 inches; or
         (c)   Any bomb, bomb-shell, grenade, bottle or other container
containing an explosive substance of over one-quarter ounce for like purposes,
such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov cocktails or
artillery projectiles; or
      (8)   Carries or possesses any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted. This division (A)(8) does not apply to any auction or
raffle of a firearm held pursuant to a license or permit issued by a
governmental body, nor does it apply to persons engaged in firearm safety
training courses; or
      (9)   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his or her person
any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or firearm or ballistic knife, when he
or she is hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his or her
identity; or
      (10)   (a)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any
public street, alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of a
city, village or incorporated town, except when an invitee thereon or therein,
for the purpose of the display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in
weapons, or except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode, legal
dwelling, or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling
of another person as an invitee with that person's permission, any pistol,
revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(10)
does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the
following conditions:
            1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state; or
            2.   Are not immediately accessible; or
            3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card; or
            4.   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
         (b)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in this division (A)(10) means:
            1.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as, batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of
disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her
incapable of normal functioning; or
            2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in such
a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning; or
      (11)   Sells, manufactures, delivers, imports, possesses, or purchases
any assault weapon attachment or .50 caliber cartridge in violation with state
law or any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division (A)(11), EXPLOSIVE
BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains
or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh
of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a
projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end
thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and
the cap; or
      (12)   Reserved;
      (13)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
For the purposes of this division (A)(13), BILLY CLUB means a short stick or
club commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or
constructed of a solid piece of wood or other man-made material; or
      (14)   Manufactures, possesses, sells, or offers to sell, purchase,
manufacture, import, transfer, or use any device, part, kit, tool, accessory,
or combination of parts that is designed to and functions to increase the rate
of fire of a semiautomatic firearm above the standard rate of fire for
semiautomatic firearms that is not equipped with that device, part, or
combination of parts; or
      (15)   Carries or possesses any assault weapon or .50 caliber rifle in
violation of state law; or
      (16)   Manufactures, sells, delivers, imports, or purchases any assault
weapon or .50 caliber rifle in violation of state law.
   (B)   Sentence. A person convicted of a violation of division (A)(1) through
(5), (A)(10), (A)(11), division (A)(13), or division (A)(15) commits a Class A
misdemeanor. The possession of each weapon in violation of this section
constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   The presence in an automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in division (A)(7) is prima facie
evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by, all persons
occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or substance is
found, except under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      (2)   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife as defined in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) above prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, purchase, possession, or carrying of any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid Firearm
Owner's Identification Card previously issued in his or her name by the
Illinois State Police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of
selling or manufacturing switchblade knives.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1) Penalty, see §
130.099
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning possession of weapons on school or university
grounds (all of which are felonies), see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1),
(2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (9) and (10)
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01(A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(10), and (A)(13) and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.6 do
not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace, while actually engaged in
assisting such officer.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchmen while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment.
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004,
while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment. A person shall be
considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the required
20 hours of training for a private security contractor, private detective, or
private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency and 28 hours
of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for the renewal
of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of this Section shall be
the same as for those cards issued under the provisions of the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith
Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of the
licensed private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm
contractor agency at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to such commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that such security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this Section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the security guard at all times when he or she is in possession
of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois
Legislative Investigating Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the
weapons specified in § 137.01(A)(3) and (A)(4), while on duty in the course of
any investigation for the Commission.
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to such financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department; provided that any person so employed has successfully completed a
course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which
includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of
weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this exemption if he
or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security officer
and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of
this section shall be the same as for those issued under the provisions of the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and
Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the
security guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this
division (A)(8), FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan
association, credit union or company providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car, while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act.
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State's
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to ILCS Ch. 725, Act
210, § 7.06.
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State's Attorney under § 3-
9005 of the Counties Code.
      (12.5)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act.
      (13)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties, or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the sheriff.
      (13.5)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear
energy, storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and
training mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
      (14)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under division (A)(1) through (A)(13.5) of this section to possess
those weapons.
   (A-5)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(10) do not apply to or affect any person carrying a
concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the person has been issued a
currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act at the time of
the commission of the offense.
   (A-6)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(10) do not apply or affect a qualified current or retired
law enforcement officer or a current or retired deputy, county correctional
officer, or correctional officer of the Department of Corrections qualified
under the laws of this State or under the federal Law Enforcement Officers
Safety Act.
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(10) and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.6 do not apply to or
affect any of the following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges.
      (2)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor.
      (3)   Hunters, trappers or fishermen while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code.
      (4)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible.
      (5)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person's permission.
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(7) does not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers while in performance of their official duties.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
      (4)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of machine guns to persons
authorized under division (C)(1) through (3) above to possess machine guns, if
the machine guns are broken down in a non-functioning state or are not
immediately accessible.
      (5)   Persons licensed under federal law to manufacture any weapon from
which eight or more shots or bullets can be discharged by a single function of
the firing device, or ammunition for such weapons, and actually engaged in the
business of manufacturing such weapons or ammunition, but only with respect to
activities which are within the lawful scope of such business, such as the
manufacture, transportation, or testing of such weapons or ammunition. This
exemption does not authorize the general private possession of any weapon from
which eight or more shots or bullets can be discharged by a single function of
the firing device, but only such possession and activities as are within the
lawful scope of a licensed manufacturing business described in this division
(C)(5). During transportation, such weapons shall be broken down in a non-
functioning state or not immediately accessible.
      (6)   The manufacture, transport, testing, delivery, transfer or sale,
and all lawful commercial or experimental activities necessary thereto, of
rifles, shotguns, and weapons made from rifles or shotguns, or ammunition for
such rifles, shotguns or weapons, where engaged in by a person operating as a
contractor or subcontractor pursuant to a contract or subcontract for the
development and supply of such rifles, shotguns, weapons or ammunition to the
United States government or any branch of the Armed Forces of the United
States, when such activities are necessary and incident to fulfilling the terms
of such contract.
         (a)   The exemption granted under this division (C)(6) shall also
apply to any authorized agent of any such contractor or subcontractor who is
operating within the scope of his employment, where such activities involving
such weapon, weapons or ammunition are necessary and incident to fulfilling the
terms of such contract.
      (7)   A person possessing a rifle with a barrel or barrels less than 16
inches in length if:
         (a)   The person has been issued a Curios and Relics license from the
U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; or
         (b)   The person is an active member of a bona fide, nationally
recognized military re-enacting group and the modification is required and
necessary to accurately portray the weapon for historical re-enactment
purposes; the re-enactor is in possession of a valid and current re-enacting
group membership credential; and the overall length of the weapon as modified
is not less than 26 inches.
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession or carrying of a black-
jack or slung-shot by a peace officer.
   (E)   Section
137.01(A)(8) does not apply to any owner, manager or authorized employee of any
place specified in that subsection nor to any law enforcement officer.
   (F)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and(A)(10) and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.6 do not apply to
members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of practicing
shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public or private,
while using their firearms on those target ranges.
   (G)   (1)   Sections
137.01(A)(11) and
137.03(A)(6) do not apply to:
         (a)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
         (b)   Bonafide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance.
         (c)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance.
         (d)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive
bullets by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (G)(1)(a) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state,
or the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person
exempted in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by
an exempted manufacturer.
      (2)   Section
137.01(A)(6) does not apply to or affect persons licensed under federal law to
manufacture any device or attachment of any kind designed, used, or intended
for use in silencing the report of any firearm, firearms, or ammunition for
those firearms equipped with those devices, and actually engaged in the
business of manufacturing those devices, firearms, or ammunition, but only with
respect to activities that are within the lawful scope of that business, such
as the manufacture, transportation, or testing of those devices, firearms, or
ammunition. This exemption does not authorize the general private possession of
any device or attachment of any kind designed, used, or intended for use in
silencing the report of any firearm, but only such possession and activities as
are within the lawful scope of a licensed manufacturing business described in
this division (G)(2). During transportation, these devices shall be detached
from any weapon or not immediately accessible.
      (3)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(10) and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.6 do not apply to or
affect any parole agent or parole supervisor who meets the qualifications and
conditions prescribed in § 3-14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections.
      (4)   Section
137.01(A)(6) does not apply to a peace officer while serving as a member of a
tactical response team or special operations team. A peace officer may not
personally own or apply for ownership of a device or attachment of any kind
designed, used, or intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm.
These devices shall be owned and maintained by lawfully recognized units of
government whose duties include the investigation of criminal acts.
   (H)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this chapter need not negative any exemptions contained in this chapter. The
defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession, of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
of the State of Illinois or the federal government, where such transportation,
carrying, or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which such
common carrier is engaged; and nothing in this chapter shall prohibit, apply
to, or affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol,
revolver, stun gun, taser, or other firearm, not the subject of and regulated
by §
137.01(A)(7) or division (C) of this section, which is unloaded and enclosed in
a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box, or other container, by the
possessor of a valid Firearm Owners Identification Card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2)
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person; or
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (4)   He or she has been a patient in a mental institution within the
past five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession. For purposes of this division (A)(4), MENTAL INSTITUTION means any
hospital, institution, clinic, evaluation facility, mental health center, or
part thereof, which is used primarily for the care or treatment of persons with
mental illness, and PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was
admitted, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for
mental health treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an
alcohol abuse disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or
mental illness; or
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For
purposes of this division (A)(6), EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion
of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which
will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal, and CARTRIDGE
means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and
a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such
tube between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is a Class A misdemeanor. Unlawful possession of handguns is a Class
4 felony. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in violation of
this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) prohibits a person under 18 years of age
from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such as,
but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.l) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 137.04 DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Any person who shall knowingly or intentionally change, alter, remove
or obliterate the name of the importer’s or manufacturer’s serial number of any
firearm commits a Class 2 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (B)   A person who possesses any firearm upon which any such importer’s or
manufacturer’s serial number has been changed, altered, removed or obliterated
commits a Class 3 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a person from making repairs,
replacement of parts, orother changes to a firearm if those repairs,
replacement of parts, or changes cause the removal of the name of the maker,
model, or other marks of identification other than the serial number on the
firearm’s frame or receiver.
   (D)   A prosecution for a violation of this section may be commenced within
six years after the commission of the offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-5) Penalty, see §
130.099
§ 137.05 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   DRILLING OF WELLS FOR PETROLEUM AND GAS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: DRILLING OF WELLS FOR PETROLEUM AND GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Compliance with ordinances and laws
Permit Provisions
   
150.15   Required
   
150.16   Size of drilling tract or unit
   
150.17   Application for permit
   
150.18   Granting of permit
   
150.19   Hearings on application
   
150.20   Bond required
   
150.21   Insurance required
   
150.22   Number of permits per oil and gas wells
   
150.23   List of contractors and subcontractors to be filed with city clerk
   
150.24   Excavations; permit required; plat; fee
Standards of Operations
   
150.35   Pumping units to be placed on electrical operation
   
150.36   Disposal of salt water, oil and other refuse
   
150.37   Restoration of pit
   
150.38   Depth of surface pipe
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The protection of the lives of persons and property within the city and the
protection of the public health, and protection from fire, gas explosions and
other hazards dangerous to the public peace, health and safety, and the
prevention of nuisances, requires the regulation of operations for the drilling
and operation of wells, pipelines and other equipment for the production of
petroleum and gas, and that for the preservation of the pubic peace, health and
safety of the city and the inhabitants thereof, an emergency is hereby declared
to exist.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   In the drilling of any well or wells within the corporate limits of the city
all ordinances and laws of said city in respect thereto shall be strictly
followed and complied with and for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
such ordinances and laws and for the prevention of fires, explosions and other
dangerous hazards, full authority for the enforcement of such rules and
regulations is hereby vested in the City Council and the Police Department of
the city.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 150.15 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person firm, or corporation
either for himself or acting as an agent, employee or servant of any other
person, firm or corporation, to engage in any work or to erect any structures,
tanks, machinery, pipelines, or other appurtenances, incident to the drilling
for or production of petroleum or natural gas or to operate, maintain, or
permit to exist any equipment, structures or appurtenances incident to such
production or to use or maintain any property or premises within the
corporation limits of the city without first having been issued a permit or
complying with all if the terms and conditions as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 SIZE OF DRILLING TRACT OR UNIT.
   The term DRILLING TRACT or UNIT when used in this chapter means a compact
and contiguous area of land approximately square in shape containing not less
than ten acres, provided that the City Council may issue a permit for a
drilling tract or unit smaller in size or irregular in shape if, upon proper
application, notice and hearing as hereinafter provided, the City Council finds
that be reason of the manner of platting or laying out or the size of city lot
or blocks or the geographical shape or location of the property involved and
upon which it is sought to drill a well, a full ten-acre drilling tract or unit
cannot be obtained as herein defined and that undue hardship would be created
upon the owners if a drilling permit is not granted for such a drilling tract.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.17 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Before any permit for the drilling of a petroleum or gas well is
issued, a written application therefor, signed by the applicant or some duly
authorized person in his, her or its behalf, shall be filed with the City
Clerk.
      (2)   The application shall state the name and address of the applicant,
the location where the proposed well will be drilled and the formation to which
the well will be drilled, and there shall be attached to the application a plat
showing the shape and size of the drilling tract, the separate tracts or
parcels of land comprising the tract and the proposed location of the well to
be drilled. Wells shall be located as near the center of the unit as is
practical and the circumstances permit.
      (3)   There shall also be attached to the application a list of all oil
and gas leases or contracts with the owners of property within the drilling
unit, the name and last known address of the owners of such oil and gas leases
or contracts and the names and last known addresses of the owners of property
situated within the drilling unit which have not been leased for oil and gas,
or upon which there are no oil and gas leases or other contracts shown of
record in the county.
      (4)   The fee for the issuance of a permit shall be $25 and each
application shall be accompanied by a certified or cashiers check in that
amount payable to the City Treasurer.
      (5)   If the application show that the applicant is not the owner of oil
and gas leases or contracts covering all of the lands within the drilling
tract, the applicant shall also file with the application a statement of the
estimated cost of drilling, completing and equipping an oil and gas well on the
unit. The application shall be duly verified before an official authorized to
administer oaths in the state.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.18 GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   If the application, together with the exhibits attached thereto shows that
the applicant is the owner of, or has under contract or lease all of the
property within the unit and if the unit contains at least ten acres
approximately in the form of a quare, the City Council shall grant a permit for
the drilling of the well, provided the applicant has complied with all of the
requirements of this chapter and any other ordinance of the city in relation to
the drilling of petroleum and gas well.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.19 HEARINGS ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   In the event that it appears that the applicant does not own leases
for oil and gas or contracts concerning the same, covering all of the land
within the unit, or if the drilling tract or unit does not contain at least ten
acres or if the tract or unit is not square in shape, the City Clerk shall set
a time and place for a hearing upon such application. The hearing shall be held
not less than ten nor more than 20 days from the date of filing the application
and notice of the hearing shall be given by the City Clerk by mail to the Mayor
and each member of the City Council, and to the owners of any unleased land
within the unit, and to the owners of oil and gas leases or contracts covering
property within the unit as shown by the application. Such notice shall be so
mailed at least ten days before such hearing. Copies of such notice shall also
be posted in at least five public places in the city at least ten days before
such hearing. The notice shall state the time and place od hearing, the name
and address of the applicant and the approximate area and location of the
proposed unit. The application and exhibits attached thereto shall be available
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk at a reasonable time
before the hearing.
   (B)   At any time before the hearing any other owner or owners of oil and
gas leases in the drilling tract or any owners of property within the drilling
tract may file applications for a permit to drill in the unit.
   (C)   At the time and place fixed by the City Clerk, the City Council shall
conduct a hearing on such application and all persons interested shall be given
an opportunity to be heard. All witnesses shall be examined under oath and a
transcript of the evidence shall be taken and filed with the City Clerk. The
cost of the hearing and transcript shall be paid by the person, firm or
corporation to whom a permit is granted and shall be paid before the permit is
issued.
   (D)   The City Council shall decide whether or not the applicant, or which
one of the applicants, is entitled to a permit. Preference shall be given to
the applicant who has the greater portion of the area of the unit under lease.
If the applicant does not have all of the land within the unit under lease or
other contract, the City Council shall determine whether the estimated cost of
drilling, completing and equipping the proposed well is reasonable, and if not,
the City Council shall determine the sum which in its opinion is the reasonable
estimated cost of these items.
   (E)   If a permit is granted, a notice of the decision of the City Council
shall be given by the City Clerk by mail to the owners of land within the unit
which is not leased for oil and gas and to the owners of oil and gas leases or
contracts covering land within the unit, other than the applicant to whom the
permit is issued. The $25 fee deposited by any applicant to whom a permit is
not issued shall be returned to him.
   (F)   If a permit is issued to an applicant who does not have all of the
property within the unit under lease or other contract to produce oil and gas
therefrom, then the estimated reasonable cost of drilling, completing and
equipping the well as determined by the City Council shall be set forth in the
notice of the decision of the City Council and each addressee shall be advised
to deposit his or its proportionate part of such estimated reasonable cost with
the City Treasurer within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice if they
desire to participate in all of the oil and gas produced from the unit. Failure
on the part of any owner of property within the unit whose property is not
under lease or other contract, and failure on the part of the owner of any
lease or other contract covering property in the unit, other than the one to
whom a permit is granted, to deposit his or its proportionate part of the
estimated reasonable cost of drilling, completing and equipping the well within
ten days after the date of mailing such notice shall be deemed to be an
election not to participate in the produce of all of the oil and gas produced
from the unit. Whether or not the owners of property lying within the unit,
elect to participate in the cost of drilling, completing and equipping such
well, such owners of property shall be entitled to receive their proportionate
part of one-eighth royalty for oil and gas produced, saved and marketed from
such well free and clear of any cost, except taxes which may accrue to such
one- eighth interest.
   (G)   If sums are deposited with the City Treasurer for the proportionate
part of the cost of drilling, completing and equipping a well as herein
provided, the permittee shall, upon furnishing to the City Treasurer receipted
bills showing the actual cost of drilling the well, receive such proportionate
part of the deposited sum as shall be due the permittee for such sums advanced
by him. If the well is abandoned and plugged at that point, the remaining sums
in the hands of the City Treasurer shall be repaid to the parties who deposited
them. If the well is completed and equipped, upon presentation to the City
Treasurer of receipted bills for the completion and equipment expenses by the
permittee, the proportionate part of such costs shall be paid to the permittee
from the funds in the hands of the City Treasurer. In the event that there is
then left in the hands of the City Treasurer any sum, it shall be refunded to
the person who deposited the same.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.20 BOND REQUIRED.
   No permit for the drilling of any such well shall be issued until the
applicant shall have file with the City Clerk good and sufficient bond in the
amount of $5,000 issued by a bonding or an indemnity company authorized to do
business in this state, payable to the People of the State of Illinois, for the
use of any person interested and conditioned that the applicant or his or hits
assigns will comply with all of the terms and conditions of this chapter in the
drilling of a well as herein provided and that all drilling sites will be
leveled and restored to their former condition and that all litter, machinery,
derricks, buildings and other structures and equipment will be cleared and
removed from the premises as soon as the same are no longer needed in
connection with the drilling of the well or the production of oil or gas
therefrom.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.21 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The permittee shall before commencing any drilling operation, file with the
City Clerk a certificate showing that he is insured by an insurance carrier
licensed to do business in this state under a policy of insurance in which the
carrier agrees to pay on behalf of the insured all sums which the insured shall
become legally obligated to pay as damages because of any bodily injury,
sickness or disease, including death at any time resulting therefrom, and
because of injury to or destruction of property, including the loss thereof,
sustained by any person, firm or corporation and caused by or arising out the
ownership, maintenance or operation of any oil or gas well or any device or
equipment used in connection therewith within said city. Said policy limits
shall be in the sum of not less than $100,000 for bodily injury and $10,000 for
property damage.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.22 NUMBER OF PERMITS PER OIL AND GAS WELLS.
   Within the corporate limits of the city there shall be issued only one
permit for one oil and gas well to be drilled on each drilling tract or unit,
provided that when one or more wells shall be drilled beyond the city limits
line and less than 330 feet thereof immediately adjacent to any drilling tract
within the city limits or separated therefrom by a street, alley or highway,
then a permit may be issued for the drilling of an additional well or wells in
said drilling tract at a location not more than 200 feet from the city limits
line to offset such well or wells on land situated outside the city limits, and
provided further that were more than one oil and gas bearing formation
underlies a drilling tract or unit, then a permit may be granted for one well
to each such formation.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.23 LIST OF CONTRACTORS AND SUB- CONTRACTORS TO BE FILED WITH CITY CLERK.
   Before work shall commence under any permit the holder thereof shall file
with the City Clerk a written statement of all contractors and subcontractors
connected with the work including the erection of the rig and the drilling of
the well, and shall promptly notify said City Clerk of any change of contractor
or subcontractor.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
§ 150.24 EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED; PLAT; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation, either as principal or agent, to make any excavation in any part
of the streets, alleys, highways, sidewalks or other public property, for the
purpose of drilling any well or for the purpose of laying or installing any
pipe lines in or upon such property without first having obtained a permit from
the City Council so to do.
   (B)   The applicant for such permit shall file with the City Clerk a plat
showing in detail the size and exact location of such proposed excavation and
the purpose for which the same will be made, and if for the laying of
pipelines, the size of the pipeline, the purpose for which it will be used and
the depth at which such line will be buried. Upon the granting of any such
permit, the City Council may require the permittee to furnish a proper bond or
to place in escrow a sufficient sum of money for the payment of any damages
which are likely to accrue on account of such excavation and for the faithful
performance by the permittee of his agreement to restore the land to the same
or as good condition as it was prior to such excavation.
   (C)   The City Council may also require payment from such permittee of an
annual fee or rental so long as such excavation or such pipeline is in use.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATIONS
§ 150.35 PUMPING UNITS TO BE PLACED ON ELECTRICAL OPERATION.
   Any and all pumping units installed on any well for the production of oil or
gas shall be placed on electrical operation within 30 days of such additional
time as may be granted by the City Council upon application of the operator,
and same shall be housed, fenced, or otherwise enclosed to protect the public
from them.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER, OIL AND OTHER REFUSE.
   All salt water, oil and other refuse caused, made or produced in connection
with the drilling of any well and in connection with the production of
petroleum or gas shall be hauled out and disposed of outside the city limits by
the operator or put into a disposal well with pipe set for injection in cement
below fresh water level.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37 RESTORATION OF PIT.
   Within ten days from the date on which any well is plugged or placed on
pump, all pits shall be filled and leveled and the surface of the drilling site
restored as nearly as may be to the condition it was in before the commencement
of the drilling operation.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 DEPTH OF SURFACE PIPE.
   In the drilling of any well for petroleum or gas the permittee shall set
surface pipe to a depth below any and all fresh water sands which might be used
in the further by the city, which depth shall be at least 260 feet.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation either for himself or his agent, servant, or
employee, who has violates any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall
be engaged in any work or the erection of any structure which shall be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof shall be
deemed guilty of a an offense and fined in any sum not exceeding $200 and costs
and each day such violation is continued or any structure or equipment is so
unlawfully maintained or permitted to exist in violation of this chapter, shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 363, passed 6-21-65)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.04   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.11   Base flood elevation
   
151.12   Preventing increased flood damages
   
151.13   Protecting buildings
   
151.14   Subdivision requirements
   
151.15   Public health and other standards
   
151.16   Carrying capacity and notification
Administration
   
151.21   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.22   Development permit
   
151.23   Variances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-
2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.11.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility that is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the
city, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the
city are generally identified as such on panel numbers 120, 140, 260 and 280 of
the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of DeWitt County, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the effective date of November 2,
2007. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by
the community. The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated DeWitt County
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be
annexed into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared for DeWitt County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the effective date November 2, 2007.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. Those portions of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Salt Creek and Salt Creek
Tributary shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
DeWitt County prepared by FEMA with the effective date of November 2, 2007. The
floodways for each of the remaining floodplains of the city shall be according
to the best data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEDBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
151.13.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is: built on a
single chassis; 400 square feet or less in size; and designed to be self-
propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck and designed primarily
not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during the life of the building equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE LOSS BUILDINGS
(see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during the life of the building in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements: equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started; or
increases the floor area by more than 20%. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures
that have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work done. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include any project
for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.03 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.04 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City
Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including: Ordinance No. 557, passed September 21, 1989. However, this chapter
does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.11 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Salt Creek and Salt
Creek Tributary shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide Flood Insurance Study of DeWitt County prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH Zone
or AO Zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
Flood Insurance Rate Map of DeWitt County and dated November 2, 2007.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A Zone on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of DeWitt
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
sources. Should no other data exist, the applicant must finance an engineering
study to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated DeWitt County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of DeWitt County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated November 2, 2007.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.12 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 feet;
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half (0.5) feet at a point 1,000 feet
upstream of the proposed structure;
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile;
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel;
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit;
and
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge;
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream;
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris;
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated; and
         (f)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety
Code, and federal requirements must be met.
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one-quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limited established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers;
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet;
         (c)   For L-Shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner's shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet;
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line;
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water;
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers, which previously
stored pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals, are not
permissible;
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill;
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow; and
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6. The following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts, and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, or ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection;
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures;
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material that may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5), shall be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to
be crossed; and
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban);
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed above, other materials (e.g.
tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided all other conditions
of this permit are met;
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5);
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet;
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action;
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way that would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project;
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank;
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site;
         (i)   For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the
bank, toe of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the
cross-sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10% nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream
bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to
lessen the quantity of material required;
         (j)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area;
         (k)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (l)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless: it is constructed in alignment with an
existing seawall(s) or gabion structure(s), and the volume of material placed,
including the structure, would not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot; and
         (m)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   The principle structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit;
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another property, and must
not involve the placement of any fill material;
         (d)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel;
         (e)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions;
         (f)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review; and
         (g)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not, either singularly
or cumulatively, exceed 1,000 feet;
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel;
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site;
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of stream
bank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize and existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by IDNR/OWR in
accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards;
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure;
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge;
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR);
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department's Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, Channel and
Stream Bank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities); and
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (11)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13:
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations;
         (b)   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR;
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks;
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway;
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure;
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition;
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction;
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5); and
         (i)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      (1)   The permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.13 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.12, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively during
the life of the building. If substantially improved, the existing structure and
the addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed;
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood proofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Flood proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
flood proofing for the purpose of this division.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) of this section; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) of this
section unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model, and must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet.
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.14 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
151.12 and
151.13. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.15 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
151.12 and
151.13 the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.13.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
flood proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater. Flood
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.16 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.21 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Unless another person is so designated by the City Manager or by the City
Council, the City Manager shall serve as the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.22;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.12;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.13 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood proof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
151.14;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
151.15;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.23 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in § 151.24 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.22 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain
Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.13; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or permit-not- required letters that may be required for this type of
activity.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Fees for permits shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a development permit for clearing debris, demolishing
buildings, or removing buildings out of the SFHA, no fee.
      (2)   For construction, reconstruction, improvements or installation of
any permanent structure and for any development project, the fee shall be $50,
plus reimbursement of any direct costs incurred by the city for application
review.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.23 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Floodplain Administrator
for a variance. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
151.13 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
151.13 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in "Historic
Structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
151.12 and
151.13 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; or
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the City Manager may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
City Manager shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (B)   The City Manager shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (D)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the City Council. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state the grounds for the complaint,
reasons for suspension or revocation and the time and place of the hearing.
   (E)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 840, passed 8-6-07)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Purpose
   
152.04   Compliance with zoning ordinance
   
152.05   Conflicting provisions; invalidity
   
152.06   Publication
   
152.07   Official comprehensive plan and official map; hearing; notice
Subdivision Plat Requirements
   
152.20   Approval of subdivision plats to be in compliance with this chapter
   
152.21   Compliance with other regulations
   
152.22   Preliminary plat and approval
   
152.23   Final plat and approval; forms
Design Standards
   
152.35   Establishment
   
152.36   Streets
   
152.37   Storm sewers
   
152.38   Sanitary sewers
   
152.39   Water supply
   
152.40   Monuments
   
152.41   Requirements generally
   
152.42   Electrical service
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.50   Variances; exceptions
   
152.51   Inspections and engineer certification
   
152.52   Responsibilities of City Council on subdivision control
   
152.53   Actions to restrain or abate violations
   
152.98   Violations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter and the subdivision regulations contained herein shall be known
and may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Farmer City.”
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the plat of the proposed subdivision between which, and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot unit abuts, the erection of
an enclosed structure or portion thereof is prohibited.
   EASEMENT. The quantity of land set aside or in which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land is granted to the public and which exists distinct from
ownership of the land.
   FINAL PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision which has been accurately
surveyed, and that survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys,
easements, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can be identified. Where
the plat includes a multi-unit structure with ownership planned of individual
units and the common elements of ownership.
   IEPA. The abbreviation for the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   OWNER. Any individual, combination of individuals or other legal entity
having a proprietary interest in a parcel of land.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision.
   SIDEWALK. That paved portion of the right-of-way designed and intended for
the public use of pedestrian traffic.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. Those specifica-tions for streets and storm sewers
shall mean the latest “Illinois Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” as amended of revised. “Standard Specifications” for the water
mains and sanitary sewers shall mean the latest “Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois,” as amended or revised.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords primary access by
pedestrian and vehicles to abutting property.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Any division, development or resubdivision of any part, lot area or
tract of land by the owner or agent, either by lots or by metes and bounds into
lots two or more in number, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
conveyance, transfer, improvement or sale with appurtenant streets, alleys,
easements, dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use or for the use
of the purchasers or owners within the tract subdivided. It shall also include
any division, development or resubdivision of any land or building, either on a
horizontal or vertical or combined horizontal and vertical basis, for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of having therein or thereon a multi-unit
structure with ownership of individual units by different owners, along with
any common elements of ownership and along with any appurtenant streets,
alleys, easements dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use for the
use of the purchaser or owners of units within the multi-unit structure,
including, but without being limited to condominiums. It shall also include any
division, development or re-division of land in such a way as to result in
multiple zoning classification uses, frequently referred to as a Planned Unit
Development, along with any common elements of ownership or use and along with
any appurtenant streets, alleys, easements dedicated or intended to be
dedicated to the public use or for the use in common of purchasers, owners or
lessees. The division of land for agricultural purposes not involving any new
street, alley or other means of access, shall not be deemed a subdivision for
the purpose of the regulations and standards of this chapter.
      (2)   However, except where condominiums or a Planned Unit Development is
involved, the term SUBDIVISION as used in this chapter does not include the
following:
         (a)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of
five acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access;
         (b)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements;
         (c)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (d)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities or cable
television facilities and other pipe lines which does not involve any new
streets or easements of access;
         (e)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility which does not involve any new streets or easements of access and the
conveyance of any right-of-way or easement by a franchised cable television
company;
         (f)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
         (g)   Conveyances made to correct description in prior conveyances;
         (h)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract, not involving any new streets or easements of access, when a survey is
made by a registered surveyor; provided that this exemption shall not apply to
the sale of any subsequent lots from the same larger tract of land, as
determined by the dimensions and configuration of the larger tract on the date
of the passage of this chapter.
   TENTATIVE APPROVAL or PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. Approval with or without
recommended alterations given to a preliminary plat by the City Council that
also provides the necessary authority to proceed with the preparations and
presentations of the final plat.
   USEPA. The abbreviation for the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of §§
152.20 through
152.53 and §
152.98 are:
   (A)   To protect and enhance the area under the jurisdiction of the city as
a decent and enjoyable place in which to live.
   (B)   To prevent the depreciation in value of real property in the area
under the jurisdiction of this city.
   (C)   To secure the orderly development of the area under the jurisdiction
of this city.
   (D)   To insure development of the area under the jurisdiction of this city
in accordance with the purposes and provisions of any comprehensive plan
adopted by this city.
   (E)   To aid in providing for adequate facilities for streets, sewers,
water, access to sunlight, services and public use for residents of the area
under the jurisdiction of this city.
   (F)   To establish procedures for approving plats of subdivision of multi-
unit structures for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of having therein
ownership of individual units by different owners.
   (G)   To establish reasonable rules and regulations with respect to street
drainage and surfacing.
   (H)   To establish reasonable requirements with respect to water supply and
sewage collection and treatment.
   (I)   To establish reasonable rules and regulations governing the location,
width and course of streets, alleys, utility easements and storm or flood water
runoff channels and basins.
   (J)   To endeavor to secure the taxpayers in the area under the jurisdiction
of this city from financial loss caused by inadequate subdivision development.
   (K)   To, generally, promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals and
welfare of the citizens of this city.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.04 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter contained herein shall excuse compliance with the
provisions of any zoning ordinance used in this city.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.05 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; INVALIDITY.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances, heretofore adopted, in conflict with
the provisions of this chapter, to the extent that they are in conflict with
this chapter, are hereby repealed. The provisions of this chapter are hereby
declared to be separable, and the invalidity of any section or provision hereof
shall not affect the validity of any other provision herein.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.06 PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall cause the subdivision control regulations to be
printed or put in book or pamphlet form.
   (B)   A number of copies of the subdivision control regulations as so
printed or published shall be left at a bank, library and the city hall where
they may be picked up by members of the public, with such number left at each
location as to be determined by the City Administrator.
   (C)   Any person shall be entitled to receive a copy of the subdivision
regulations upon payment to the city the sum of $5, with that payment to be
made through the bonded members of city hall.
   (D)   However, any official, agent or employee of this city having use of a
copy or copies of the subdivision control regulations in connection with work
on behalf of this city shall be entitled to such copy or copies without charge.
   (E)   Copies of the subdivision control regulations shall be furnished
without charge for use by the judges of the judicial circuit of Illinois,
DeWitt County, and, upon request, for use by the judges of other courts. One or
more copies of the subdivision control regulations shall be furnished for the
DeWitt County law library.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.07 OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OFFICIAL MAP; HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   An official comprehensive plan, or any amendment thereto, proposed by
the City Council shall be effective in this city and contiguous area herein
prescribed only after its formal adoption by the City Council. This plan shall
be constructed to regulate or control the use of private property in any way,
except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly
enacted by the corporate authorities. At any time or times, before or after the
adoption of the official comprehensive plan, the Mayor and City Council may
designate by ordinance an official map in accordance with the provisions of §
11-12-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code. Upon submission of a comprehensive plan
by the City Council, or a proposed amendment to an existing comprehensive plan,
the Mayor and City Council shall schedule a public hearing thereon before the
City Council. Not less than 15 days' notice of the proposed hearing, and the
time and place thereof, shall be given by the publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. The City Administrator shall have the duties
of preparing and causing to be published such notice of hearing. The hearing
shall be informal, but all persons desiring to be heard in support of or
opposition to the comprehensive plan or amendment shall be afforded such
opportunity and may submit their statements, orally, in writing or both. The
hearing may be recessed to another date if not concluded, if notice of the time
and place thereof is publicly announced at the hearing or is given by newspaper
publication not less that five days prior to the recessed hearing.
   (B)   Within 90 days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Mayor and City
Council, after consideration of that information as shall have been derived
from the hearing, shall either adopt the comprehensive plan or amendment in
whole or in part or reject the entire comprehensive plan or amendment. If
adopted, the Mayor or City Council shall enact the ordinance including a map or
maps as hereinbefore provided. A comprehensive plan or amendment shall not
become effective until the expiration of ten days after the date of filing
notice of the adoption of such comprehensive plan or amendment with the County
Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.20 APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   No map or plat of any subdivision affecting land or buildings within the
corporate limits of this city, or, if this city has adopted a comprehensive
plan covering area outside those corporate limits but continuous thereto and
not more than 1½ miles from those corporate limits, within that continuous area
covered by such plan, shall be approved unless in full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.21 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   All subdivisions created or subdivision plats submitted after the effective
date of this chapter must comply with all existing ordinances, resolutions and
regulations of this city in force or hereafter enacted, including, but without
being limited to, the provisions in this code pertaining to water and sewer
regulations and any other applicable ordinances of this city.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   A proposed plat of subdivision shall be submitted initially to the
City Council for preliminary approval.
   (B)   This submission shall be made by filing no less than six copies of the
preliminary plat of that proposed subdivision along with the preliminary plan
of that subdivision with the City Clerk. The submission shall be accompanied by
an application of approval. The City Clerk shall immediately submit two copies
to each of the City Administrator, the City Engineer and the City Council.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall submit his recommendations in writing with
reference thereto to the City Council through the City Clerk.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall immediately notify the Mayor of the
filing of the proposed plat of subdivision, and the Mayor shall then take all
necessary steps to cause the proposed plat to be considered by the Council.
   (E)   The proposed plan shall meet requirements of § 11-12-8 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, of this chapter and of any other applicable provision of this
code or any ordinance of the city. The preliminary plat and accompanying
documents shall show location and width of proposed streets and public ways,
shall indicate proposed location of sewers and storm drains, proposed
dedication of public grounds, if any, lot sizes, proposed easements for public
utilities and proposed method of sewage and waste disposal, but need not
contain specifications for proposed improvements, but the latter shall be
furnished with the final plat.
   (F)   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the application for
preliminary approval within 60 days from the date of application or the filing
by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data, whichever date
is later, unless that time is extended by mutual consent. If the plat is
disapproved, then, within 60 days, the City Council shall furnish to applicant
in writing a statement setting forth the reason for disapproval and specifying
with particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to
the applicable provisions of this code, ordinances, statutes or any official
map. If the plat is then resubmitted corrected so as to meet the objections
specified, the City Council shall then have an additional 45 days to either
approve or disapprove the resubmitted plat. If the resubmitted plat is
disapproved, the reasons for the disapproval shall be given the subdivider.
   (G)   (1)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the City Council, the
original plat and one print or copy of the plat shall be endorsed as follows:
      This proposed plat of subdivision and accompanying documents has received
preliminary approval by the City Council of the City of Farmer City, and said
Council is now ready to receive the final plat for consideration.
         Dated                                       
         City Council of Farmer City, Illinois
         by:                                           
            Mayor, Farmer City, Illinois
      (2)   A copy of the preliminary plat so endorsed shall remain on file
with the City Clerk, and a copy of the plat so endorsed shall be returned to
the subdivider.
   (H)   If the proposed subdivision should lie wholly or partly outside the
corporate limits of this city, the City Council's action on the preliminary
plat shall not be final until a required approval has been obtained from the
DeWitt County Board.
   (I)   Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
   (J)   At the time the applicant files application for preliminary approval
of a proposed plat of subdivision, there shall be paid to the city a filing fee
of $50 to help defray the expenses of consideration of the same. In addition,
the applicant shall reimburse the city for all reasonable inspection fees
incurred to insure com-pliance with requirements established within 30 days
after those inspection fees have been incurred and the bill has been submitted
to the applicant for the same.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.23 FINAL PLAT AND APPROVAL; FORMS.
   (A)   Receipt by the subdivider of the copy of the preliminary plat together
with the approval of the City Council and, when required, the County Board of
DeWitt, shall constitute authority for the subdivider to proceed with the final
plat, plans and specifications for the installation of the required
improvements.
   (B)   Application for final approval of a plat shall be made not later than
one year after preliminary approval has been granted.
   (C)   The final plat must have thereon the name of the subdivision. Before
any subdivision is approved it must have a name.
   (D)   The application must be supported by such drawings and specifications
as may be necessary to demonstrate compliance with all applicable requirements
of § 11-12-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code, of “An Act to Revise the Law in
Relation to Plats,” approved March 21, 1874, as amended (ILCS Ch. 765), of § 13
of “An Act to Revise the Law in Relation to Recorders,” approved March 9, 1874,
as amended (Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch.115, § 13), of this chapter, of the zoning
ordinance of DeWitt County and of other ordinances of this city.
   (E)   The final plat shall be drawn at 100 feet equals one inch or larger
and shall include or indicate the following:
      (1)   Primary control points (section lines and corners or center)
approved by the City Engineer or descriptions and “ties” to those control
points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat
shall be referred.
      (2)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites,
with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves. Reference to at least one previously established
section corner shall be given.
      (3)   Name and right-of-way of each street or other right-of-way.
      (4)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easement.
      (5)   Number to identify each lot or site.
      (6)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated.
      (7)   Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites.
      (8)   Location and description of monuments.
      (9)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by record name, Plat Book and page number in the DeWitt County Recorder's
office.
      (10)   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
   (F)   The following items shall accompany the final plat for city approval:
      (1)   Cross-sections and plans and profiles of streets showing grades
approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Plan and profile and elevation sheets of utilities.
      (3)   Contour map (if required).
      (4)   Drainage map (if required).
      (5)   Restrictive covenants (if any) in form for recording, but not in
plat.
   (G)   The original reproducible drawing shall be certified substantially as
follows. Where the owner is an individual, the declaration and dedication shall
be signed by the spouse of the owner; but, if the owner is a single person
never having been married or a person whose marriage has been dissolved and has
not since remarried, then the marital status of the owner shall be shown.
      (1)   The declaration and dedication form hereinafter set forth has been
drawn as if the owner or owners is or are individuals, and this may be modified
where the owner is a corporation, partnership or other legal entity and should
be modified as to form to fit the situation.
      STATE OF ILLINOIS      {'}'}
                   SS.
      COUNTY OF DEWITT      {'}'}
DECLARATION AND DEDICATION OF                    
SUBDIVISION TO THE CITY OF FARMER CITY DEWITT COUNTY
      The undersigned,                           , husband and wife
respectively, each on his or her own right and as spouse of the other (a single
person never having been married) (a person whose marriage has been dis-solved
and who has not since remarried), hereby certify that they are the owners of
the land shown on the accompanying plat and that they have caused the survey
and subdivision thereof to be made as shown on the accompanying plat, with such
subdivision to be known as                                   , in the City of
Farmer City, DeWitt County, Illinois. The undersigned do hereby dedicate the
streets and utility easements shown on said Plat to the public use forever.
      Easements as shown by dashed lines and marked utility easements on said
Plat are hereby reserved for the use of all public utility companies, the City
of Farmer City, and any cable television company duly franchised to install,
lay, construct, operate,
maintain, repair, renew and/or remove underground water mains, sewer pipes, gas
pipe lines, electric and telephone and television cables and conduits with all
necessary above-ground transformer and service pedestal installations, along
with all accessories connected with any of the foregoing, and with the further
right to install and maintain overhead electric and telephone and television
pole and wireline installations with all necessary braces, guy wires, anchors
and other appliances, for the purpose of serving the subdivision and adjoining
properties with water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, and cable television
service, including the right to use the streets when necessary and to overhang
or bury across all lots service wires, pipelines and/or cables to serve
adjacent lots, together with the right to enter upon the lots at all times to
install, operate, and maintain said utility facilities and to trim or remove
any trees, shrubs, or saplings that interfere or threaten to interfere with
said utility facilities.
      No permanent buildings or trees shall be placed on said easements, but
same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do
not interfere with the use of said easements for the aforesaid utility
purposes.
      In connection with any dedication of streets or grant of easements herein
contained, the undersigned hereby release and waive all rights under and by
virtue of the homestead exemption laws of this state.
   Dated at            , Illinois, this         day of                     ,
           .
                                          
                                          
      (2)   Certificate of Notary where owners individuals:
   STATE OF ILLINOIS      {'}'}
                   SS.
   COUNTY OF DEWITT      {'}'}
      I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State and County
aforesaid, do hereby certify that                      , husband and wife,
respectively, each in his or her own right and as spouse of the other, (a
single person never having been married) (a person whose marriage has been
dissolved and has not since been married), personally known to me to be the
same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, appeared
before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed, sealed and
delivered the foregoing instrument as their free and voluntary act, for the
uses and purposes therein set forth, including, as to any dedication or grant
of easements therein contained, release and waiver of any rights under the
homestead exemption laws of this state.
   WITNESS my hand and notarial seal this    day of                    ,
            .
                                         
      Notary Public
   My commission expires:                     
   Certificate of Notary where owner a corporation:
      I,                                   , a registered land surveyor, do
hereby certify that, at the direction of                    (owner), I have
surveyed and subdivided a tract of land into lots, streets and utility
easements as shown hereon; said tract of land being            (acres), more or
less, in the               of Section           of Township           ,
                  County, Illinois.
      I further certify this to be a true and correct plat of said survey and
subdivision. Corners are monumented as shown hereon; distances are given in
feet and decimals thereof. Such plat is drawn to a scale of one inch equal to
      feet.
      I further certify to the best of my knowledge and belief the drainage of
surface waters will not be changed by the construc-tion of such subdivision of
any part thereof
(or in the alternative, if such surface water drainage will be changed: That,
as to any change in any drainage of surface waters, reasonable provision has
been made for collection and diversion of such surface waters in public areas,
or drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters
will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engi- neering
practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property
because of the construction of the subdivision). I further certify that no part
of this property shown on this plat is situated within five hundred feet (500)
of any surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or
more. (In lieu of this latter sentence, certification can be made showing
approval by the Illinois Department of Transportation and compliance with Ill.
Rev. Stat. Ch. 115, § 13.)
      I further certify that the said land is within the corporate limits of
the City of Farmer City, Illinois.
      (Alternative to above paragraph if comprehensive plan has been adopted by
the City of Farmer City covering territory outside of corporate limits of City
and land involved is within such territory: I further certify that said land is
within 1½ miles of the corporate limits of the City of Farmer City, Illinois,
which has adopted a comprehensive plan and is exercising special powers
authorized by Division 12 of Article 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code, is
within territory covered by such comprehensive plan, and is not within the
corporate limits of any other city.)
   Dated at             , Illinois, this            day of
                        ,        .
                                              
   Ill. Reg, Land Surveyor #              
      (3)   There shall also appear thereon an additional certificate in
substantially the following form:
   STATE OF ILLINOIS      {'}'}
                   SS.
   COUNTY OF DEWITT      {'}'}
      I,                            , County Clerk of the County aforesaid do
hereby certify, that I have this day examined the Tax Records of the property
shown on the attached plat and find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current
general taxes, or delinquent assessments against the tract of land described in
said plat.
      Given under my hand and the seal of said County this day of
                 ,         .
                                          
   County Clerk
                                      
   Deputy County Clerk
      (4)   There shall also be placed thereon an additional certificate in
substantially the following form for signature by the City Clerk to which is to
be affixed by said City Clerk the City Seal. However this shall not be signed
by such City Clerk and the City Seal shall not be thereto affixed until the
performance bond hereinafter mentioned is furnished and accepted or the escrow
agreement hereinafter mentioned is entered into, after approval of such final
plat at a meeting of the City Council.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS   {'}'}
                   SS.
   COUNTY OF DEWITT   {'}'}
      I,                      , City Clerk of the City of Farmer City, Dewitt
County, Illinois, do hereby certify that this plat was duly approved and
accepted by the Mayor and City Council at a meeting held on the      day of
                    ,            .
                                       
   (H)   The topographical and profile studies, which shall be submitted with
the plat, shall have in the face of these studies the signed statement of a
registered professional engineer, and the owner of the land of his duly
authorized attorney, to the effect that to the best of their knowledge and
belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction
of such subdivision or any part thereof, or, that if the surface water drainage
will be changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and
diversion of those surface waters into public areas, or drains which the
subdivider has a right to use, and that the surface waters will be planned for
in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the
likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of
the subdivision. The City Council shall not approve any subdivision plat if
these statements have not been made on the face of such topographical and
profile studies. Such topographical and profile studies required herein shall
not be recorded, but shall be retained and filed by the City Clerk as permanent
documents of this city.
   (I)   Application for final approval of a plat of a subdivision shall be
made by filing with the City Clerk six copies and one reproducible of such plat
and six copies of such application and required supporting documents. The City
Clerk shall immediately transmit copies to each of the following: The City
Administrator, the City Engineer and the City Council. The City Engineer shall
submit his recommendations in writing in reference thereto to the City Council
through the City Clerk. The applicant shall also submit at the time of
submission of application for final approval an estimate of the cost of
construction of necessary improvements to conform to the requirements
established, including reasonable inspection fees to be borne by the applicant,
and this estimate shall be transmitted by Clerk to the City Engineer. The City
Engineer shall review such estimate and make such modifications and
recommendations with reference thereto as are appropriate and then transmit
such estimate as so modified by the City Engineer to the City Administrator, so
that the City Council may establish the amount of the performance bond to be
required or, in the alternative, the amount deposited in escrow in lieu of such
bond. The City Administrator shall immediately notify the Mayor of the filing
of such application, plat and supporting documents, and the Mayor shall then
take all necessary steps, the same to be considered by the City Council.
   (J)   The applicant may elect to have final approval of a geographical part
or parts of the plat that received preliminary approval, and may delay
application for approval for other parts until a later date or dates beyond one
year with the approval of the Mayor and City Council: provided, all facilities
required to serve the part or parts for which final approval is sought have
been provided. In such case only that part or parts of the plat as have
received final approval shall be recorded.
   (K)   When a person submitting a plat of subdivision or resubdivision for
final approval has supplied all drawings, maps and other documents required by
this chapter or other ordinances of the city and by statute, and if all those
material meets the requirements of this chapter or other ordinances and of
statute, the Mayor and the City Council shall approve the proposed plat within
60 days from the date of filing the last required document or papers, or within
60 days from the date of filing application for final approval of the plat,
whichever date is later. The date of filing shall be the date of filing with
the City Clerk.
   (L)   If the final plat is approved, the City Clerk shall attach a certified
copy of the order or resolution of approval to a copy of the plat. If the
proposed plat is disapproved, the order or resolution shall state the reasons
for the disapproval, specifying with particularity the aspects in which the
proposed plat fails to conform to the applicable provisions of this code and
any other ordinances of the city, statutes or the official map. A copy of the
order or resolution shall be filed in the office with the City Clerk.
   (M)   At the time the performance bond hereinafter mentioned is furnished
and accepted, or the escrow agreement hereinafter mentioned is entered into,
after approval of such final plat at a meeting of the City Council, the City
Clerk shall sign the certification plat in form heretofore specified and place
thereon the City Seal.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS      {'}'}
                   SS.
   COUNTY OF DEWITT      {'}'}
      I,              , City of Farmer City,DeWitt County, Illinois, do hereby
certify that this plat was duly approved and accepted by the Mayor and City
Council at a meeting held on the        day of          ,                 .
                                        
   City Clerk
   (N)   After final approval of the plat of subdivision by the Mayor and City
Council and notification of the applicant of such approval, the applicant shall
post a good and sufficient bond, with surety to be approved by the Mayor and
City Council, with the City Clerk, in an amount at least equal to 120% of the
cost of construction of the improvements, including reasonable inspection fees,
as estimated by the City Engineer. Such bond shall insure or be conditioned
upon completion of construction of required improvements within such reasonable
time as shall be established by the Mayor and City Council and upon payment of
inspection fees and other fees due the city by the subdivider, and upon the
subdivider making good on a guarantee of the required improvements contained in
said plat and any order or resolution of approval of the Mayor and City Council
for a period of one year following written acceptance by the City Engineer.
Such bond shall contain the terms, provisions and conditions set forth in the
form of bond hereinafter set forth. Such a bond will not be required for a
subdivision or a part of a subdivision located outside the corporate limits of
this city if a similar performance bond and guarantee has been provided to the
county. Such bond shall be substantially in the following form:
   PERFORMANCE BOND WITH DEWITT COUNTY
      We,                                       , as principal, and
                                   , as surety are bound to the City of Farmer
City, Illinois a municipal corporation, in the penal sum of                
dollars ($       ) lawful money of the United States, for the payment of which
we, and each of us, jointly and severally, bind ourselves and our heirs,
executors and administrators.
WHEREAS:
      (1)   The above named principal has heretofore submitted to the Mayor and
City Council of the City of Farmer City a plat of subdivision which was
approved by order or resolution of said Mayor and City Council under date of
the         day of          ,      .
      (2)   Said plat and said order or resolu-tion contain certain
specifications and requirements, designated herein as required improvements;
      (3)   Said principal does guarantee such required improvements against
faulty materials and workmanship for a period of one year following written
acceptance by the City Engineer.
      (4)   There will be certain necessary inspection fees incurred by the
City of Farmer City in connection with the same which are to be reimbursed to
said City by said principal, and, there may be other fees due said city under
the Plan and Subdivision Ordinance, the Zoning Ordinance of Dewitt County, and
other ordinances of said city;
      NOW, THEREFORE, the condition of this obligation is such that if the said
principal carries out and performs all specifications and requirements, that
is, required improve-ments, contained in the said plat of subdivision and said
order or resolution of approval no later than the               day of
               ,              , or such extension of such time as may be
granted by the Mayor and City Council, and further makes good on the guarantee
of such required improvements against faulty materials and workmanship for a
period of one year following written acceptance by the City Engineer, and
further reimburses the said City of Farmer City for all reasonable inspection
fees incurred to insure compliance with such requirements established within
thirty (30) days after such inspection fees have been incurred and bill has
been submitted to the principal for the same, and further pays all other fees
due said City of Farmer City under the Sub-division Ordinance, the Zoning
Ordinance of DeWitt County, and other ordinances of said city, then this
obligation is void; otherwise it remains in full force.
      If the City of Farmer City, for good and sufficient cause, brings legal
action to forfeit this bond, or to recover thereunder, or to otherwise enforce
the agreements contained in this instrument, then said City shall further be
entitled to recover from the principal and any surety hereon, jointly of
severally, its attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses of litigation
reasonably incurred in connection with such action or proceeding. If for any
reason such attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses of litigation are not
included in the court's judgment in such action or proceed-ings to be recovered
by such City, then said City shall have the right to recover the same by
separate action.
      Upon the expiration of one year from the completion of the required
improvements shown on said plat and on the order or resolution of the Mayor and
City Council of said City of Farmer City, and the acceptance of the same by the
City Engineer of said City, and if all inspection fees and other fees due the
City of Farmer City have been paid, and if the principal on said bond has made
good the guarantee of the required improvements, upon the application of the
principal or any surety or of any person properly acting on behalf of either of
them, then the foregoing bond shall be released by said City of Farmer City.
   Witness our hands and seals this              day of                 ,
        .
                                          (SEAL)
   Principal
                                                   
   Street Address
                                                   
   City, State and Zip Code
                                                   
   Telephone Number (Area Code)
                                           (SEAL)
   Surety
                                                   
   Street Address
                                                   
   City, State and Zip Code
                                                   
   Telephone Number (Area Code)
State of Illinois      {'}'}
             ss.
County of             {'}'}
      I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County, in the state
aforesaid, do hereby certify that                     personally known to me to
be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument,
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed, sealed
and delivered said instrument as their free and voluntary act, for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
      Given under my hand and notarial seal
this         day of             ,          .
                                                
   Notary Public
   (O)   In lieu of the aforesaid bond, the owner or subdivider may provide an
escrow account to be held by local bank or local savings and loan association
under an escrow agreement. This account shall be equal to the estimate of the
cost of the required improvements, including inspection fees, as those required
improvements are shown on the plat of subdivision and order or resolution of
the Mayor and City Council approving that plat, plus an additional twenty
percent (20%) thereof. The escrow agreement shall contain the terms, conditions
and provisions hereinafter set forth in the form of the escrow agreement. The
escrow agreement shall be in substantially the following form:
   ESCROW AGREEMENT
      This agreement is entered into between                           ,
hereinafter designated as “Subdivider”, the City of Farmer City, a municipal
corporation, hereinafter designated as “City”, and                        (bank
or S & L), hereinafter designated as “escrow agent.”
      1.   Subdivider hereby deposits, or agrees to immediately deposit, with
escrow agent the sum of               Dollars ($        ) lawful money of the
United States.
      2.   Escrow agent shall not release any sums of money on deposit with
escrow agent to subdivider except upon receipt by escrow agent of a copy of an
order or resolution of the Mayor and City Council authorizing such release in
the amount stated in such order or resolution, with such copy to be certified
by the City Clerk.
      3.   Subdivider shall:
         (a)   Carry out, make and perform all specifications and requirements,
that is, required improvements, contained in a certain plat of subdivision,
known as the subdivision, and in the order or resolution of the Mayor and City
Council under date of the         day of                ,          , no later
than the         day of                ,           , or such extension of such
time may be granted by the Mayor and City Council of said City.
         (b)   Guarantee, and does hereby guarantee, such required improvements
against faulty materials and workmanship for a period of one year following
written acceptance by the City Engineer of City.
         (c)   Make good on the foregoing guarantee.
         (d)   Reimburse City for all reasonable inspection fees incurred to
insure compliance with the aforesaid requirements established, within thirty
(30) days after such inspection fees have been incurred and bill has been
submitted to subdivider for same.
         (e)   Pay all other fees due city under the Subdivision Ordinance of
City of Farmer City under any Zoning Ordinance of City, and under any other
Ordinance of said City.
      4.   As subdivider completes each 20% of the required improvements,
according to estimated cost, upon acceptance of such portion by the City
Engineer of City, the Mayor and City Council, by order or resolution, shall
authorize escrow agent to release to subdivider an amount equal to one-sixth
(1/6th) of the principal amount initially on deposit with escrow agent. Upon
receipt of a certified copy of such order or resolution as aforesaid, escrow
agent shall release and pay over to subdivider such amount specified in such
order or resolution.
      5.   Upon the expiration of one year from the completion of the required
improvements shown on said plat and on the order or resolution of the Mayor and
City Council approving such plat and the acceptance of the same by the City
Engineer of the City, and if all inspection fees and other fees due the City
have been paid, and if the subdivider has made good the guarantee of the
required improvements, upon application of the subdivider or any person
properly acting for subdivider, then the Mayor and City Council by order or
resolution shall authorize the release of the remaining principal and interest
on deposit with escrow agent.
      6.   Should subdivider fail to perform any of the agreements on such
subdivider's part to be performed as herein specified, then upon application of
the City made by its Mayor and City Council, or anyone on their behalf, then
escrow agent shall pay over to City any remaining balance of principal and
interest on deposit with escrow agent. The certificate of either the City
Engineer or City Treasurer of City that subdivider has failed to perform the
agreements on his part to be performed as specified herein shall be sufficient
proof and sufficient authority to warrant and authorize escrow agent to pay
over to City such remaining balance of principal of interest on deposit with
escrow agent, and no other proof shall be required.
      7.   Should such amount as aforesaid be paid over to City as a result of
failure of subdivider to perform as aforesaid, then City shall apply such
amount received first to any fees due or to become due City and shall apply the
remainder toward completing the required improvements. Should such amount be
insufficient for the foregoing, then City shall be entitled to recover from
subdivider any amounts expended or estimated to be needed to expend for such
purposes along with all of City's expenses, including, but without being
limited to, engineer's fees, attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses of
litigation incurred or to be incurred. The City shall be entitled to, and shall
have, a lien upon the land and improvements of said subdivision for all of the
foregoing, and for its reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses of
litigation connected with any foreclosure of such lien, and such lien may be
foreclosed in the same way that mort-gages are foreclosed and deficiency judg-
ment entered against subdivider for any deficiency balance should said land and
improvements prove insufficient to pay all of the foregoing amounts. However,
such foreclosure of lien proceedings shall not be exclusive remedy of City, and
city may recover from subdivider, or may enforce performance, by any other
action available, either in law or equity, and in any such action brought with
good and sufficient cause, City shall be entitled to recover from subdivider
its attorney's fees, court costs and expenses of litigation connected with such
action, or shall be entitled to recover the same by separate action.
      8.   This agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, executors,
administrators, successors and assigns of the respective parties.
      Witness our hands and seals, this          day of                ,
          .
                                       
   Subdivider
                                        
   Street Address
                                        
   Municipality, State and Zip
                                         
   Telephone Number (Area Code)
   City of Farmer City,    Illinois, a municipal corporation,
   By:
                                        
   ATTEST:
                                        
   City Clerk
   (BANK)
   By:                                          
   Its                                            
   (corporate seal)
   ATTEST:
                                                        
   Its                                                   
   (P)   Any bond or escrow agreement provided for in this chapter shall be
caused to be prepared by the subdivider and at subdivider's expense, shall then
be submitted to the City Attorney for approval, and shall then be submitted to
the Mayor and City Council for approval.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The following requirements are hereby established as the minimum standards
of subdivision design of public improvements required to be constructed or
installed in a subdivision.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.36 STREETS.
   (A)   A public street or streets shall be provided to afford convenient
access to all property within the subdivision. No private street, right-of-way
or thoroughfare shall be permitted.
   (B)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall be considered in relation to existing and planned streets;
reasonable circulation of traffic within the development; topographical
conditions; run-off of storm water; public convenience and safety; and in their
appropriate relationship to uses in the area to be served.
   (C)   Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by through traffic
shall be discouraged.
   (D)   Where, in the opinion of the City Administrator, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of that property.
   (E)   The width of the right-of-way on any classification of street shall be
54 feet with the placement of curb lines to provide a minimum width of traveled
way of 34 feet, except those streets as may be deemed to be main thoroughfares,
which streets may have a greater dedicated width and/or traveled way.
   (F)   Dead end streets, designed to be so permanently, shall be provided at
the closed end with a turn-around having an outside roadway diameter of at
least 80 feet, and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet. These
dead end streets shall have a maximum length to be determined by the City
Engineer for each proposed subdivision at the time it is submitted for
preliminary approval. Dead end streets shall be avoided where practical and
none will be permitted where they may interfere with the plan of orderly and
efficient flow of traffic within the city.
   (G)   Curves in streets shall be permitted provided a curve is inserted with
a minimum radius of 300 feet for major streets and a minimum of 150 feet for
minor streets for all deflections in horizontal center lines in excess of ten
degrees.
   (H)   When any subdivision or part of a subdivision is adjacent to only one
side of an existing right-of-way, which is less than the required width, the
subdivider shall dedicate additional right-of-way to meet the requirement in
accordance with this chapter.
   (I)   Drainage gradients of streets shall be no less than 0.5% in any case.
Street grades shall not exceed 5% on major streets nor 7% on minor streets.
Street grades shall be such as to provide natural surface drainage of storm
water regardless of the presence of storm sewer facilities. The intent of this
requirement is to avoid depressions greater than one foot in depth along any
given street profile which will flood in flash storms for which available
drainage is inadequate.
   (J)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 85 degrees shall not be approved. The intersection of more than two
streets shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Proposed new intersection along one side of an existing road or street
shall, wherever practical, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of that road or street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of
less than 150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street
has separate dual drives without median breaks at either intersection.
   (L)   Where any street intersection will involve banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard of limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut ground and/or vegetation, including trees,
in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent deemed
necessary to provide adequate sight distance.
   (M)   The developer shall install standard street name signs at all
intersections created by the subdivision. In no case shall the name for
proposed
streets duplicate existing streets, road, boulevard, drive, place or court or
an abbreviation thereof. Street names shall be approved by the City Council.
   (N)   Street numbering system shall conform to standards approved by the
City Council.
   (O)   At least one street light shall be placed at each street intersection
within or abutting the subdivision, with a maximum of 500 feet between lights.
Light standards shall be as approved by the City Council, the City Engineer and
the local utility company.
   (P)   The developer is required to furnish easements for utilities and for
franchised cable television. These easements shall have a minimum width of ten
feet. All utility lines for telephone, electric and cable television service
shall be placed in rear-line easements when carried on overhead poles. When
telephone, electric, gas and cable television service lines are placed within
easements or dedicated public ways, they shall be placed in a manner which will
not conflict with other underground services. Further, above ground structures
identified with those underground facilities shall be located so as not to be
unsightly or hazardous to the public. All drainage and utilities installations
which transverse privately-owned property shall be protected by easements.
   (Q)   The costs of installation of all utilities required by state standards
shall be borne by the developer.
   (R)   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided by the developer along side
streets of all subdivisions unless the Council shall determine, by resolution,
that those sidewalks are not feasible. All sidewalks shall be four feet in
width a minimum thickness of four inches. All sidewalks shall be installed at
an elevation three inches higher than the top of the curb immediately adjacent
to the sidewalk and slope at 1/4 inch per foot towards the curb. Upon the
completion and sale of 75% of a subdivision block, sidewalks must be installed
for that block.
   (S)   All materials and methods of construction of pavement, storm sewers,
curbs and gutters, sidewalks and appurtenances shall be in accordance with the
latest “Illinois Department of Transportation — Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction”, as amended or revised.
   (T)   The full width of the public right- of-way shall be graded, including
the subgrade of the areas to be paved. The difference in ground elevation
between the setback line and the top of the curb immediately adjacent to the
setback line shall not exceed two feet.
   (U)   The street base shall have a minimum thickness of eight inches when
thoroughly compacted. This base shall be constructed with Aggregate Base Course
Type B (CA-6).
   (V)   The street surface shall have a minimum thickness of two inches of
Bituminous Mixture Complete (I-11).
   (W)   Streets shall have combination concrete curb and gutter, type M6-12 or
approved equivalent as designated in the “Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction.”
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.37 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Storm sewers shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
applicable portions of the latest “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois,” as amended or revised and “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.” The storm sewers shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Storm sewer inlets shall be Neenah R-3067 or an approved equal.
   (C)   Storm sewer manhole casting shall be of the non-rocking type.
   (D)   Adequate provision shall be made in the subdivision for storm or flood
water run- off channels, basins or sewers.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.38 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
applicable portions of the latest “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois” as amended or revised. Those sanitary sewers
shall be as approved by the City Engineer. Copies of the IEPA permit
applications WPC-PS-1 and their appropriate schedules shall be approved by the
City Engineer prior to submittal to the IEPA.
   (B)   Sanitary manhole castings shall have concealed pickholes, with non-
rocking lids.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer lines shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision.
   (D)   House services shall be installed to the property line of each lot.
   (E)   The developer is responsible for furnishing the city an accurate map
showing the exact location and depth of all house services.
   (F)   No sanitary sewer mains will be allowed to hook up to the existing
sewer system until such time as the new installation has passed an air pressure
test and the new system is accepted by the city. The sanitary sewer shall be
filled with air to approximately 3.5 p.s.i. and allowed no more than 1 p.s.i.
drop for a given period of time which varies with the distance being tested.
   (G)   No ABS nor PVC sanitary sewer mains will be allowed to hook up to the
existing sewer system until such time as the new installation has passed a
deflection test and the new system is accepted by the city. Deflection of the
Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) pipe and the Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS)
composite pipe shall not exceed 5.0%.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The water supply system shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with applicable portions of the latest “Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois” as amended or revised. The water
supply system shall be approved by the City Engineer. Copies of the appropriate
IEPA Division of Public Water Supplies permit applications shall be approved by
the City Engineer prior to submittal to the IEPA.
   (B)   The water mains, fittings, valves and hydrants with valves, shall have
a minimum inside diameter of six inches.
   (C)   A P.V.C. water main shall be allowed as long as it conforms to ASTM D
1784 rated at 160 p.s.i. working pressure, with bell ring joints.
   (D)   All P.V.C. pipe and fittings shall have a minimum S.D.R. 37.
   (E)   The developer is responsible for furnishing and installing shut off
valves at all street intersections and water main intersections for the purpose
of isolating individual portions of the distribution system. The arrangement of
those shut off valves shall be as approved by the City Engineer.
   (F)   The developer is responsible for furnishing and installing fire
hydrants with valves. The cost of the furnished hydrants with valves shall be
borne by the developer. The fire hydrants shall be installed at intervals of no
more than 500 feet. Hydrants shall also be installed at all dead-ends of future
main extensions for the purpose of flushing the mains. Hydrants shall also be
installed at the closed end of each cul-de- sac. All fire hydrants shall be as
approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Water mains shall be extended by the developer to the far edge of the
last lot in the subdivision in order to facilitate the extension of the main in
the event of further subdividing.
   (H)   House services shall be installed for each lot. The house service
shall be one-inch type k copper pipe installed according to the “Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.”
   (I)   Water main shall be installed to a minimum depth of five feet measured
from the existing ground surface or established grade to the top of the barrel
of the pipe.
   (J)   All new water main shall undergo a pressure and leakage test. The
developer is responsible for furnishing copies to the City Engineer of those
tests. The city will not accept any new water mains until all new installations
satisfactorily pass those tests.
   (K)   Any sanitary sewer or storm sewer manhole shall be located at least
ten feet horizontally from water mains, whenever possible; the distance shall
be measured from edge to edge. Water mains crossing house sewers, storm sewers
or sanitary sewers crossing water mains shall be laid to provide a separation
of at least 18 inches between the bottom of the water main and the top of the
sewer.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.40 MONUMENTS.
   Metal monuments a minimum of 24 inches in length shall be placed in the
ground at all lot corners, intersections of streets, intersections of streets
and alleys with platted boundary lines and at all points on street, alley and
boundary lines where there is a change in direction or curvature. All monuments
shall be properly set in the ground before the streets and alleys are accepted
by the city.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.41 REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Where sanitary sewer or water facilities are made larger than is
immediately required to serve the land described in the final plat, due to the
necessity of serving adjacent and/or presently vacant property as it shall be
developed in the future by others, the subdivider shall be determined by the
City Council.
   (B)   Lot sizes shall be in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Where the development of residences within a subdivision could result,
in the opinion of the Mayor and City Council, in a substantial increase in
school population within schools serving school children of the city or in an
overcrowding of existing park and recreation facilities within the city or
within territory included within a comprehensive plan of the city, the Mayor
and City Council may require that land be set aside for school facilities
within the subdivision as a condition of approval of the final plat.
   (D)   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, water courses, historical and similar
features.
   (E)   Where a residential subdivision adjoins a railroad right-of-way, a
waterway, an industrial area, a business area or other land use which would
have a depreciating effect on the residential use of the property, a buffer
planting strip five feet in width and suitably planted to form a screen and/or
fence may be required by the Mayor and City Council.
   (F)   In cases of preliminary plans for parts of tracts, where it appears
necessary to the City Council for the satisfactory over-all development of an
area, an owner shall be required to prepare a plan of utilities and streets for
his entire tract based upon proper topographic surveys before approval of any
portions of that plan is rendered.
   (G)   The Mayor and City Council, as a condition to approval of the final
plat of a subdivision, may make reasonable requirements as to lot orientation,
building orientation and direction of street system so as to provide access to
solar energy by residents or occupants of nearby property. As to the
subdivision of any multi-unit structure, the design of that multi-unit
structure shall be such as not to unreasonably restrict access to sunlight and
solar energy by owners or occupants of nearly property.
   (H)   As to any plat of survey of a condominium, the declaration of
condominium shall be submitted at the same time as the plat and in the same
number of copies as is elsewhere required by this chapter. The plat and
declaration shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois
Condominium Property Act. The declaration, in order to avoid any complications
that might arise by virtue of encroachment of a part of the common elements
upon the unit area, and vice versa, caused by settling or shifting of the
structure, should contain mutual covenants granting easements for the
maintenance of those encroachments as long as the property is owned by the
condominium. In this connection, any easements or rights granted in the
declaration should be declared as appurtenant, running with the land and for
the benefit of and binding upon all present and future owners, purchasers,
mortgagees and other persons having an interest in the property.
   (I)   Where a development is traversed by a stream or drainage course,
sufficient right- of-way adjacent to and including such topographic feature
shall be dedicated for public use to allow for at least 15 feet in width on
both sides of the defined stream or drainage course. All data required of the
topographic feature shall be provided by the subdivider.
   (J)   Sanitary sewers and water supply mains, as required under this
chapter, shall not be tied into or connected to storm, sanitary and water
supply systems of the city unless the subdivision shall have been annexed to or
is a part of the city.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   The following shall set forth the responsibilities of the city and the
developer for the provision of electrical service to a subdivision.
   (A)   The developer.
      (1)   The developer shall present to the Electrical Superintendent, a
construction plan outlining subdivision plans, locations and square footage of
buildings to be constructed, placement of utilities and any other relevant
information about the project after final plat approval and prior to
commencement of construction.
      (2)   The developer shall pay to the city a permit fee equal to the
amount of the cost of provision of electrical service for buildings to be
constructed within the approved plat.
      (3)   The fee shall be paid to the city at the time the contractor
secures a building permit.
   (B)   The city.
      (1)   The city shall design an electrical service plan which shall meet
the needs of the required development without any negative effect on existing
service.
      (2)   The city shall calculate the fee for the provision of electrical
service by adding the total of all materials, labor, substations, and
transformers required by the subdivision and then dividing the total amount by
the number of approved lots.
      (3)   Additional charges shall be applicable in any of the following
instances:
         (a)   Where additional costs are incurred by the city in crossing
streets, alleys or other areas in such subdivision which cannot be trenched or
bored in the normal manner, such as hand trenching due to adverse soil
conditions;
         (b)   Rearrangement of facilities caused by changes made by the
contractor.
(Ord. 741, passed 8-7-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.50 VARIANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Where the City Council finds that extraordinary hardship or particular
difficulties may result from strict compliance with the regulations contained
in this chapter, it may recommend the allowance of variances or exceptions to
such regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; however, that variance or exception shall not have the effect
of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter; and further provided,
that the City Council shall not recommend the allowance of variances or
exceptions to the regulations of this chapter unless it shall make findings
based upon the evidence presented before it in each specific case that:
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surrounding, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from an inconvenience, if
the strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance or exception
is based are unique to the property for which the variance or exception is
sought and are not applicable, generally, to other property.
      (3)   The purpose of the variance or exception is not based exclusively
upon a desire to make more money out of the property; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance or exception will not be detrimental
to public health, safety or general welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
   (B)   In its recommendations on variances and exceptions, the City Council
may recommend the imposition of those conditions as will aid, in its judgment,
the promotion of the objectives of the standards or requirements which it
recommends be varied or modified.
   (C)   Upon considering the recommendations of the City Council, and its
reasons for the same, the Mayor and City Council may grant, in whole or in
part, the variances or exception recommended and any such conditions, as is the
judgment of the Mayor and City Council; as will aid in the standards or
requirements which it authorizes to be varied and modified.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.51 INSPECTIONS AND ENGINEER CERTIFICATION.
   All required public improvements to be installed under this chapter shall be
supervised and inspected during the course of construction by the City Engineer
and/or other qualified and authorized employees of the city. The subdivider
shall bear the costs of all those inspections. Final acceptance by the city
will be contingent on the subdivider's consulting engineer certifying in
writing that this subdivision and improvements have been constructed in
accordance with plans, specifications and city ordinances and final approval by
the City Engineer, in writing.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.52 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY COUNCIL ON SUBDIVISION CONTROL.
   The City Council is hereby vested with the following responsibilities,
duties and powers in regard to subdivision control.
   (A)   The City Council shall review all preliminary subdivision plats, final
subdivision plats, applications for approval, and accompanying documents to
assure compliance with this chapter; with the zoning ordinance; with other
ordinances of this city; with Section 13 of “An Act to Revise the Law in
Relation to Recorders,” approved March 9,1874, as amended (Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch.
115, § 13) with Section 11- 12-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code; with “An Act
to Revise the Law in Relation to Plats,” approved March 21, 1874, as amended
(ILCS Ch. 765); and with other statutes of the state and laws of the United
States. It shall also review any report of the City Engineer with reference to
such subdivision or any plat thereof and shall consider any recommendations
with reference to that subdivision or the plat thereof made by the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Should a subdivider wish to consult with the City Council to obtain
preliminary determinations of the City Council in regard to a central platting
features affecting his property prior to the preparation of detailed plans, the
City Council shall meet and consult with the subdivider.
   (C)   In the examination of subdivision plats and accompanying documents,
the City Council will take into consideration the requirements of the
community, the best use of the land being subdivided and whether or not the
subdivision as proposed is in accord with any comprehensive plan adopted by the
city. Particular attention will be given to the width and location of streets,
suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes and arrangements as
well as local requirements for parks, streets, schools, recreation sites and/or
other public uses.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit subdivision of any portion of the
property which lies within the flood plain of any stream or drainage course
when it deems the same necessary for the health, comfort, safety or general
welfare of the present or future population of the area and necessary to the
conservation of water or to the protection of drainage sources of sanitary or
sanitary facilities. The areas referred to in this division shall be preserved
by the subdivider from any and all destruction or damage from clearing, grading
or dumping of earth, waste materials or stumps during the course of adjacent
building or development operations.
   (E)   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat of a
subdivision and accompanying documents within the time and in the manner
provided in §
152.22.
   (F)   The City Council, through the City Administrator and otherwise, shall
check on and oversee all subdivisions as the same are being developed; shall
endeavor to secure compliance with this chapter, with the requirements
contained in any plat of subdivision or order or resolution of the Mayor and
City Council approving the subdivision, with any performance bond or escrow
agreement entered into by the subdivider, and shall call attention of the
subdivider to any violations of this chapter, of the aforesaid requirements,
and of any performance bond or escrow agreement.
   (G)   The City Council has the authority to direct the City Administrator,
where that officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of this
chapter to file a complaint for such violation with the assistance of the City
Attorney. The City Administrator with or without such direction shall have the
authority to file complaints for violations of this chapter for which a penalty
is provided in this chapter when that officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that such violation has occurred.
   (H)   Where the City Council has reasonable grounds to believe that legal
action should be taken, other than the filing of a complaint for a penalty
provided in this chapter, in order to enforce compliance with this chapter and
carry out the purposes of this chapter, the City Council shall call for such
legal action.
   (I)   The City council shall have such additional powers as shall be
necessary, proper or reasonable to carry out and perform any of its duties,
responsibilities, powers and authority with reference to subdivision control.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.53 ACTIONS TO RESTRAIN OR ABATE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any penalty provided for in this chapter, this city may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to enjoin, restrain, correct or
abate any violation of this chapter, or to compel compliance with the
provisions thereof, or to prohibit the conveyance of any lot in or parcel of
any subdivision which is the subject of any violation of this chapter, or to
recover either actual or exemplary damages, or both, for a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   If in any action or proceedings instituted as above set forth, the
party or parties' defendant is or are found to have violated any provision of
violation of this chapter as alleged in the complaint instituting such action
or proceedings, then this city shall further be entitled to recover from that
party or parties' defendant its attorneys fees, court costs and expenses of
litigation reasonably incurred in connection with such actions or proceedings
as additional damages in that action or proceedings. If for any reason the
attorney's fees, court costs and expenses of litigation are not included in the
court's judgment in such action or proceedings to be recovered by this city,
then this city shall have the right to recover the same by separate action.
   (C)   The failure of this city to institute any action or proceedings as
above set forth, or to seek a penalty for violation of this chapter, shall not,
in any way, condone, authorize or permit any violation or this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, who would be considered a party in interest, without cost
to this city, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings, either in
his own name or on behalf of and as representative of a class action suits, to
enjoin, restrain, correct or abate any violations of this chapter, or to compel
compliance with the provisions thereof, or to prohibit the conveyance of any
lot in or parcel of any subdivision which is the subject of a violation of this
chapter, or to recover either actual or exemplary damages, or both, for a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
§ 152.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No map or plat of any subdivision affecting land or buildings within
the corporate limits of this city shall be presented to the office of County
Recorder of Deeds, for recording until that map or plat of subdivision has
received the final approval of the Mayor and City Council and any required bond
has been posted and approved or required escrow agreement has been entered
into, unless there has been an order of court directing such recording. After
the adoption by the Mayor and City Council and the effective date of a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development of this city and
official map that includes territory contiguous to this city which is not more
than 1½ miles beyond the corporate limits of this city and included within such
comprehensive plan and official map shall be presented to the office of County
Recorder of Deeds, for recording until that map or plat of subdivision has
received final approval of the Mayor and City Council of this City and any
required bond has been posted and approved or required escrow agreement has
been entered into, unless there has been an order of court directing such
recording.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall convey or sell such parcel until a final plat of
that subdivision has received the final approval of the Mayor and City Council
and any required bond has been posted and approved or required escrow agreement
has been entered into and until such final plat has been filed with the County
Recorder of Deeds.
   (C)   No person shall subdivide any land, or lot or parcel thereof, for
purposes of sale, conveyance or lease, by the use of a metes and bounds
description with the intent of evading this chapter.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building located on a lot, plot or parcel of land subdivided, sold or conveyed
in violation of the requirements and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100 and not more than $500.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-90)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Limited installation of mobile homes; permit required
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 LIMITED INSTALLATION OF MOBILE HOMES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Mobile/manufactured home installation shall be limited to designated
R-4 Districts by DeWitt County zoning, and to mobile home parks designated by
DeWitt County zoning or licensed by the Illinois Department of Public Health,
within the city limits, except under the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   Within zoning districts R-2 and R-3, only, as designated by DeWitt
County, an existing mobile/manufactured home of an originally manufactured
width of 16 feet, or less, may be replaced by a newer mobile/manufactured home
with a minimum assembled width of 26 feet, an asphalt-shingled roof with a
minimum 5:12 pitch, vinyl siding and a minimum total finished living area of
1,300 square feet;
      (2)   Any hitch assembly, or assemblies, that extends beyond an exterior
wall of the replacement mobile/manufactured home and the wheels and axles upon
which such home is transported shall be removed when the replacement home is
installed;
      (3)   The permanent chassis upon which the replacement mobile/
manufactured home is built and any space between the ground and the bottom of
the exterior walls shall be covered with vinyl siding, brick or concrete block
when the replacement home is installed; and
      (4)   The replacement mobile/manufactured home, and the installation
thereof, shall comply with all other applicable statutes, codes, rules and
regulations of the state, DeWitt County and the city.
   (B)   Individuals or companies wishing to install or replace a mobile home
within the city must first obtain a permit from the city. Such permits shall be
issued by the Mayor upon receipt from the applicant of:
      (1)   Evidence of compliance with division (A) above;
      (2)   Payment of a fee of $25; and
      (3)   Completion of proper permit form for such authorization.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-29-91; Am. Ord. 819, passed 5-1-06) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Each day of violation of §
153.01 shall be considered a separate offense, and subject to a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-29-91)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The DeWitt County Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted pursuant to the
limitations, restrictions and requirements of Illinois Statute and any maps of
the Comprehensive Plan related to Farmer City illustrating future land use
shall be in place.
(Ord. 1056, passed 12-7-20)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Statutory authorization
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Intent
   
155.005   Definitions
   
155.006   Interpretation
   
155.007   Jurisdiction; compliance
   
155.008   Use restrictions
   
155.009   Site restrictions
   
155.010   General development
   
155.011   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Zoning District Boundaries and Maps
   
155.025   Zoning districts established
   
155.026   Zoning map directory
   
155.027   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
155.028   Annexed territory
Districts Use Regulations
   
155.040   Agricultural District
   
155.041   (Reserved)
   
155.042   (Reserved)
   
155.043   (Reserved)
   
155.044   R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential District
   
155.045   R-2 High Density Single-Family Residential District
   
155.046   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
155.047   R-4 Mobile Home Residential District
   
155.048   B-1 General Commercial District
   
155.049   B-2 Convenience Commercial District
   
155.050   B-3 Highway Commercial District
   
155.051   I General Industrial District
   
155.052   FP Floodplain District
   
155.053   Schedule of permitted uses, prohibited uses, and special permit uses
by district
Area Regulations
   
155.065   District lot regulations
Special Use Regulations
   
155.080   Application
   
155.081   Performance standards
   
155.082   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.083   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
155.084   Signs
   
155.085   Kennels; veterinary establishments
   
155.086   Country club; golf course
   
155.087   Golf driving ranges and amusement parks
   
155.088   Cemeteries; crematories; columbariums
   
155.089   Hospitals, churches or other religious or eleemosynary institutions
   
155.090   Shooting club
   
155.091   Amusement centers, bowling alleys, dance halls and similar places of
amusement
   
155.092   Apartments; multi-family dwellings
   
155.093   Standards for home occupation
   
155.094   (Reserved)
   
155.095   Mobile home rules and regulations
   
155.096   Modifications and exceptions
   
155.097   Single-family dwellings
   
155.098   Landscape waste composting facility
Non-Conforming Uses and Structures
   
155.110   Existing non-conforming land or building
   
155.111   Non-conforming buildings
   
155.112   Non-conforming use of land
   
155.113   Exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.125   Zoning Administrator
   
155.126   Permits required
   
155.127   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.128   Additional powers
   
155.129   Variances
   
155.130   Special use permits
   
155.131   Amendments
   
155.132   Fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the "Zoning Code of
Farmer City, Illinois".
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.002 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of the state statutes. The
City Council does hereby ordain this chapter.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To control the growth and development so as to avoid the admixture of
urban and rural uses, while preserving property values;
   (B)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comforts and
general welfare of the people;
   (C)   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residential, business and
manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (D)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within this chapter's geographic jurisdiction,
and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (E)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (F)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air to protect the public health;
   (G)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within the areas;
   (H)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (I)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
and
   (J)   To prevent additions or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations
imposed hereunder:
      (1)   To limit congestion by providing for the off-street parking of
motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles in the interest of the
public health, safety, convenience and general welfare;
      (2)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      (3)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      (4)   To conserve the taxable value ofland and buildings throughout the
geographic jurisdiction of this chapter;
      (5)   To provide for the elimination of non-conforming use of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
      (6)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.004 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to divide the city into districts for the
purpose of classifying, regulating and restricting the location of trades,
industries and commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings arranged,
intended and designed for specified uses, or regulating and limiting the height
and bulk of buildings hereafter erected, or classifying, regulating and
determining the area of front, rear and side yards, courts and other open
spaces about buildings and of regulating and limiting the intensity of the use
of the land and lot areas within the geographic area of jurisdiction; creating
a Board of Zoning Appeals; defining certain terms used in this chapter;
providing penalties for its violation and designating the time when this
chapter shall take effect.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building on the same lot with the main or principal
structure, or the main or principal use, either detached from or attached to
the main or principal structure, and is subordinate to and used for purposes
customarily incidental to the main or principal structure or the main or
principal use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with the main or principal
structure, or the main or principal use, either detached from or attached to
the main or principal structure, and is subordinate to and used for purposes
customarily incidental to the main or principal structure or the main or
principal use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot, incidental and subordinate to the main
or principal use or the main or principal structure.
   AGRICULTURE. Land, or land, buildings and structures, the principal uses of
which are growing of farm or truck garden crops and one or more of the
following: dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture or animal and poultry husbandry, and accessory uses customarily
incidental to agricultural activities including, but not limited to, the farm
dwelling, dwellings for tenant farmers and full-time hired farm workers and
dwellings or lodging rooms for seasonal workers. All buildings and structures
housing poultry or livestock shall be located no nearer than 200 feet from a
residence district boundary line.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used, or intended for use, for the
landing and taking off of aircraft; and any appurtenant areas which are used
for or intended for the use of airport buildings or other airport facilities or
rights-of-way including all necessary taxiways, pads, aircraft storage and tie-
down areas, hangars and other necessary accessory buildings and open spaces.
AIRPORT does not include a private landing strip.
   ALLEY. A special public right-of-way affording only secondary access to
abutting properties.
   ALTERATION. A change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building, or portion thereof or premises used
for dispensing, or offering for sale at retail, gasoline when stored only
underground in tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of
automobiles, and where tires, batteries and similar automobile accessories may
be offered for sale on the premises at retail, including minor services and
installations customarily incidental thereto; and facilities. Open storage
shall be limited to no more than four vehicles stored for minor repair. The
storage shall not exceed 72 hours duration and shall not permit storage of
wrecked vehicles for more than 15 days.
   AWNING.  A roof-like mechanism, retractable in operation and covered with
flexible textured material, which projects from the wall of a building.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location as is defined in this section.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The protection standard in the base flood according to
the best, most current data available to the city. Whenever a person or party
disagrees with this best available data, he, she or they may finance the
detailed engineering study needed to replace the best available data and submit
it to both the city and the state water survey. The city shall not be
responsible or required to conduct additional engineering studies to determine
a new BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
      (1)   The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION for the special flood hazard areas of the
city shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood
insurance study of the city's areas prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated 9-29-1989.
      (2)   The base flood information for each of the remaining special flood
hazard areas delineated as an "A Zone" on the flood insurance rate map shall be
based on the best available data available to the city in the following order:
         (a)   Engineering data, based on the BASE FLOOD ELEVATION as
determined for federal, state, county or township bridge construction, or
similar studies;
         (b)   The State Water Survey's Floodplain Information Repository; and
         (c)   The 100-year flood depth calculated according to the formulas
presented in Depth and Frequency of Floods in Illinois, published by the U.S.
Geologic Survey.
   BASEMENT. The portion of any structure located partly below the average
adjoining lot grade.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator occupied residence providing accommodations
for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent.
Breakfast shall be provided for the guest only. BED AND BREAKFAST
establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food
service establishments.
   BOARDING HOUSE (ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE). A residential building, a portion
thereof other than a motel, apartment hotel or hotel containing lodging rooms
for accommodation of three or more persons who are not members of the keeper's
family and where lodging or meals or both are provided by prearrangement and
for definite periods at a definite prearranged price.
   BORROW PIT. A place or premises where soil, peat, sand, gravel or other
material is removed by excavation or otherwise, for any purpose other than that
necessary and incidental to grading or to building construction or operation on
the premises.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by at
least two walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank in
order that the tanks will be constructed to be the same flood damage protection
standards. For the purposes of the provisions of this chapter, the term shall
include manufactured, modular or mobile homes, prefabricated structures, sheds
on skids and other similar structures which are either affixed and/or placed
upon the ground surface whether or not connected to utilities.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of
the finished lot grade along the front yard face of the structure to the
highest point of flat roofs, to mean height level between the eaves and ridges
of gables, gambrel, hip and pitch roofs, or the deck line of the mansard roofs.
   CAMPS or CAMPGROUNDS. Tracts of land of a design or character suitable for
and used for seasonal recreational and other similar living purposes. The
tracts may have located on them a structure of a seasonal temporary or movable
nature such as a cabin, hunting shelter or tent.
   CLINIC. An establishment without facilities for in-patient nursing care,
where one or more physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat
human physical and/or mental ailments.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated
by a corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMPOST. The humus-like product of the process of composting waste, which
may be used as a soil conditioner.
   COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic fraction of the waste, producing compost.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The extensively developed and evolving plan, also called
a “master plan”, adopted by the City Council.
   CONSERVATION. Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna and cultural
artifacts in their original state.
   CONSUMER SERVICE. Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment or convenience. For example, CONSUMER SERVICES
include the provisions of the personal services such as beautician and
barbering service, the provision of lodging, entertainment, specialized
instruction, financial service, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning
services and all other similar services.
   DENSITY. Number of living units per acre allowable under the schedule of
district regulations.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, location or placement of a
building or any addition to a building valued at more than $250;
         (b)   Installing or placing a manufactured, modular or mobile home on
a site, preparing a site for a manufactured, modular or mobile home, or
installing or placing a travel trailer on a site for more than 30 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, construction of roads or other similar
projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts;
         (e)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating or
other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   Storage of materials;
         (g)   Any other activity which might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters; and
         (h)   Installing or constructing overhead or underground utilities.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include normal, general maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as re-roofing; resurfacing roads;
gardening, tilling and similar agricultural activities that do not involve
filling, grading or the construction of levees; construction or reconstruction
of public or private roads which causes no substantial change to the existing
grade; the construction or installation of a farm, such as livestock, fences
which do not cross or are at right angles to flowing water, however, farm
activities are not exempt from required federal and state permits; the
construction or installation of public highway bridges or culverts which have
been approved by the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water
Resources, permit § 9 of 12, or the Corps of Engineer 404 permits; provided
that, the accumulated effect of construction does not increase the base flood
more than the state standard, but in no case more than one foot; and the
construction or installation of light poles, sign posts and similar structures,
sidewalks, driveways, public parks (no buildings or fences), athletic fields
(no fences), properly anchored playground equipment and other similar
installations built at existing grade.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a recreational
vehicle, which is designed, intended or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including single-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units
and multiple-family dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels, boarding
houses, rooming houses or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building which are
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used by one family, for living and
sleeping purposes and which includes permanently installed complete kitchen
facilities.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services provided by public and private utilities
necessary for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal
structure. These services include underground, surface or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewerage, storm water drainage and
communication systems and accessories thereto such as poles, towers, wires,
mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water
storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, pumps, lift stations, hydrants and the like, but not including
buildings.
   FAMILY. A single individual, or two or more persons related to each other by
blood, marriage, legal adoption, or foster care situation, living together as a
single housekeeping unit doing their own cooking, living and sleeping upon a
premises, or not more than three persons, who need not be related by blood,
marriage, legal adoption or foster care situation, living together as a single
housekeeping unit and occupying a single dwelling unit, all exclusive of
domestic servants, or a group of individuals having developmental disabilities
(mental or physical handicaps) living together as a single housekeeping unit;
provided that, the groups do not exceed five such persons, exclusive of staff,
that the applicant or sponsoring agency demonstrates that the proposed group
home has obtained a permit or license from the state and is certified to
operate as a group home; and that the group homes are separated by at least 750
feet.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood, plus
three feet, at any given location in the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the special flood hazard area required to store and
convey the base flood. The FLOODWAY is identified on the flood insurance rate
map dated 9-29-1989. No development in the FLOODWAY shall cause any increase in
the base flood elevation.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. For the purpose of determining the ratio of the floor
area of building to the area of the lot, the GROSS FLOOR AREA shall be the sum
of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building excluding
areas used for accessory garage purposes and the basement or cellar areas as
are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the buildings.
All horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of walls,
including walls or other enclosures or enclosed porches.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street or highway between two
intersecting streets or highways (crossing or terminating) measured along the
line of the street or highway, or if the street or highway is dead-ended, then
all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street or
highway and the dead end of the street or highway.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended and used to store private motor vehicles
and other personal property, owned by members of the family or families
residing upon the premises, and in which no business, service or industry is
carried on; provided that not more than one-half of the space may be rented for
the storage of private motor vehicles of persons not residing on the premises,
except that all the space in a garage of one- or two-car capacity may be so
rented. Such a garage may be used for the storage of not more than one
commercial truck having a load capacity of one and one-half tons or less.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, other than a private or storage
garage, where motor driven vehicles are equipped, repaired, serviced, rented,
sold or stored.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or premises used for housing only of motor
vehicles, and where no equipment or parts are sold, and vehicles are not
rebuilt, serviced or repaired, hired or sold; except that, fuel, grease or oil
may be dispensed within the building to vehicles stored therein.
   GRADE. The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit for the gainful
employment involving the manufacture, provision or sale of goods and/or
services.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging rooms for occupancy by transient
guests, but not including a boarding or rooming house. Such an establishment
provides customary hotel services such as maid and bellboy service, furnishing
of all laundry or linens used in the lodging rooms, and central desk with
telephone.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An unified development designed to accommodate a community
of compatible and non-nuisance types of industry. INDUSTRIAL PARKS may be
promoted or sponsored by private developers, community organizations or
government organizations.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit
establishment for public use.
   JUNK. Any worn out, cast off or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some use. An article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without
further reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily as when
new shall not be considered JUNK.
   KENNEL. On premises or portions thereof on which four or more dogs, cats or
other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on which
more than two animals are maintained, bred or cared for, for remuneration or
sale.
   LANDING STRIP, PRIVATE. A strip of land used or intended for use for the
landing and take-off of the private aircraft of the owner or lessee of the
landing strip and his or her guests and accessory structures customarily
incidental to the operations which may include one building for the storage and
maintenance of not more than two private aircraft.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY. An establishment designed and intended
for use as a site for the composting of waste materials accumulated as the
result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees and not accessory to an
operating farm.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Industry that does not create air, sight or water pollution.
Noise pollution shall be contained on the property. Incoming supplies and
outgoing finished products can be shipped with minimum freight or trucking.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. Includes the words “parcel”, “piece” and “tract.”
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut either fully
or partially upon dedicated streets or public ways. All sides shall be deemed
to be front lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that, where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the abutting street or
alley right-of-way line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street or public way. In the case of corner lots, both lot boundaries
which are along the dedicated streets or public ways shall be deemed to be
FRONT LOT LINES.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
is approximately, parallel to the front lot line, if the rear lot line is less
than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the REAR LOT
LINE shall be deemed to be a line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to
and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, OPEN SALES. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed out-of-doors prior to sale. The merchandise
includes, but is not limited to,  passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, monuments, trailers and agricultural equipment.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having two lot lines fronting on two dedicated streets
or public ways which are on opposite sides of the lot, or which fronts on two
dedicated streets or public ways which do not intersect at the boundaries of
the lot. Both streets shall be deemed to be front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the
specified front yard.
   LOT, ZONING.
      (1)   A single property, parcel, unit, tract, plot or otherwise
designated portion of land, having principal frontage on a street which
comprises a site occupied by, or intended for occupancy by one principal
building or principal use together with accessory buildings and uses, yards and
other open spaces required by this chapter.
      (2)   Also any part of single property divided by a stream with a
drainage area of 20 square miles or more, an existing street or highway right-
of-way, or an existing railroad right-of-way, not in a recorded subdivision,
with street or highway frontage bounded by any of the following:
         (a)   The property line;
         (b)   A stream with a drainage area of 20 square miles or more;
         (c)   An existing street or highway right-of-way; and
         (d)   An existing railroad right-of-way.
      (3)   If the property so bounded is substandard, it shall be restricted
as specified in §
155.009(F).
   MANAGER. The principal person authorized by the City Council to carry out
the provisions of this chapter who shall be the same person serving as the City
Manager, or his/her designee, of the city.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
   MEASURED DISTANCE. The nearest integral foot if a fraction is one-half foot
or less, the integral foot next below shall be taken.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility registered by the Department
of Agriculture to perform activities to provide dispensing organizations with
usable medical cannabis.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility registered by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire medical cannabis
from cultivation centers for the purpose of legally dispensing paraphernalia,
related supplies and educational materials.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, in the
traveling mode, which is eight feet or more in body width, or is 40 feet or
more in length, or when erected on a site, is 320 square feet or more which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed and intended as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. The terms “manufactured home” and “HUD homes” shall be
synonymous with the term MOBILE HOME as herein defined and used herein.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land or lands upon which five or more
independent mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue
purposes and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
factory fabricated and is designed, intended and used as a dwelling which has a
minimum width of 24 feet, contains a minimum of 1,000 square feet, has a
pitched roof, which has a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood
shingles or other similar materials approved by the City Manager, is placed on
and attached to a permanent foundation which extends to a depth greater than
the frost line when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
The term MODULAR HOME shall be synonymous with such common terminology as “site
built” and “conventional home.”
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of lodging rooms each with
individual bathrooms and designed for use by transient guests. A MOTEL
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of linen
used in the lodging  rooms, telephone and secretarial or desk service, and the
use and upkeep of furniture.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area of land in which freight brought
by motor truck is assembled and/or sorted for routing in intrastate or
interstate shipment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer or semi-
trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which lawfully occupies a building
site or land at the time of adoption of this chapter, or as later amended, and
which does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the
time of adoption of this chapter, or as later amended, and which does not
conform with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. An establishment for the care of the aged or infirm, or a
place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such a home does not
contain facilities, other than for normal care and medical treatment of the
occupants of the home, for surgical care, the treatment of disease or injury,
obstetrics, nor does it include care of mentally ill or alcoholic patients.
   PARKING SPACE. A space accessory to a use or structure for the parking of
one vehicle the size of which shall be nine feet by 20 feet, exclusive of
passageways, driveways or other means of circulation as such.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A criterion established to control noise, odor,
smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and
explosion hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
   PLAT. A map plan or layout showing the subdivision of land and indicating
the location and boundaries of individual lots.
   RECREATION SPACE. Total area in square feet which is countable as open
space, but is not paved in streets, walks or driveways and is suitable for
recreational pursuits. The smallest countable recreation area is 1,000 square
feet. The part of a recreation area having a dimension of less than 20 feet
shall not be included as countable recreation space.
   REFUSE. All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
   RELATIVES. Persons standing in the relation of wife and husband, son,
daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, father or
mother, brother, sister, grandchildren or grandparents.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but no facilities for the manufacture of products for sale.
   RETAIL SALES. Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation
including, among other things, the storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap
metal and discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and
salvaging of unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
   SANITARY LAND FILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety. The method must conform to
state regulations.
   SETBACK LINE. The building restriction line nearest the front of and across
a lot establishing the minimum distance to be provided between the line of a
structure located on the lot and the nearest street right-of-way line.
   SHOPPING CENTERS.
      (1)   COMMUNITY. The COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER is generally designed and
constructed to serve a population of approximately 40,000 to 80,000 persons.
The facilities usually present in this type of center are a junior department
store, branch banks, apparel shops, supermarkets and personal service
enterprises such as beauty shops, barber shops and dry cleaners.
      (2)   NEIGHBORHOOD. NEIGHBOR-HOOD CENTERS mainly serve day-to-day needs
of people in their immediate vicinity. Normally, the NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER
contains from five to ten stores with a supermarket as its focal point.
      (3)   REGIONAL. The REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER is generally designed to
serve the "one-stop" customer. He or she may park his or her car once and
travel to various store destinations and purchase almost everything. The
REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER normally contains a major department store where a
large variety of goods and services are offered. The center also usually
contains professional offices, specialty shops, restaurants and perhaps
amusement facilities. A maximum trade population of approximately 100,000
persons is necessary to adequately support a REGIONAL CENTER.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
for sale on the premises where the sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where the sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGNS. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrian way.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those.lands within the jurisdiction of the city
that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the city's
incorporated areas are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 9-29-1989,
which maps are hereby adopted by reference.
   STREETS. A public right-of-way providing primary access to abutting
properties.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of
land or water.
   TENT. A structure or enclosure, the roof of which and/or one-half or more of
the sides are constructed of silk, cotton, canvas fabric or a similar light
material.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street with a high degree of continuity which serves as an
intrastate, intra-county and intra-city or inter-state highway, or as an
arterial traffic way between the various districts of this city. It affords a
primary means of access to abutting properties, except from thoroughfares
classified as freeways or other limited access routes not containing frontage
roads.
   TRAILER SPACE. A parcel of land in a travel trailer parking area for the
placement of a single trailer and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle designed for recreational use and which cannot be
defined as a mobile home under the terms of this chapter.
   USE. The purpose of activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of the district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or special use.
   USED. Includes “arranged for”, “intended for,” “maintained for” and
“occupied for.”
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities including but not limited to water
wells, water and sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and
communication transmission lines, electrical power substations, static
transformer stations, telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays
and gas regulation stations, but not including sewage disposal plants,
municipal incinerators, warehouse shops and storage yards.
   WATERLINE. The shortest straight line at the waterfront end of a stream lot
that lies wholly within the lot; provided that, not less than 75% of the length
of the waterline shall be on the landward side of the normal high water mark of
the stream.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than directly to the consumers.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a line and at right angles to the
lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the district
in which the lot is located.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which adjoins a street or thoroughfare.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between the side lot lines.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating the side yard from another lot.
   YARD, REAR. The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
and extending for the full width of the lot; provided that, in those locations
where an alley is platted in the rear of the lots, one-half of the width of the
platted alley may be included in the rear yard requirement.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.006 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor of the city and shall not
be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the state
statutes.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.007 JURISDICTION; COMPLIANCE.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and waters within
the city or which are annexed into the city. All buildings erected hereafter,
all uses of land or buildings established hereafter, all structural alterations
or relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements
of or additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in
which the buildings, uses or land shall be located.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.008 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Principal uses. Only those principal uses specified for a district or
on a planned development plat, their essential services and the following uses
shall be permitted in that district.
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures are
permitted in any district, but not until their principal structure is present
or under construction; except that, a garage for shelter of motor vehicles or a
utility shed to store tools needed to garden, farm or maintain the property in
question will be permitted.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit (conditional uses) and
their accessory uses are permitted in districts as specified, but only
according to the procedure set forth in §
155.130. The development shall be specifically reviewed by the Planning
Commission as provided in §§
155.125 through
155.132.
   (D)   Unclassified or unspecified uses. In case of uncertainty where the
City Manager is unable to determine liberally whether a use is permitted as a
principal or accessory use, he or she shall consult the Board of Zoning Appeals
for an interpretation.
   (E)   Temporary uses.
      (1)   Temporary uses such as field offices or shelters for materials and
equipment being used in the construction of a permanent structure may be
permitted by the Administrator through the issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance. In either case, the permit shall expire with the completed
construction.
      (2)   An existing single-family dwelling, an accessory structure such as
a garage, or a modular or mobile home may be allowed as temporary dwelling
during that period of time that a new, principal, single-family dwelling is
being constructed upon the same property. This temporary use is for a period of
time not to exceed one year or the date of first occupancy of the newly
constructed residence, whichever is the earlier date. The temporary dwelling
shall comply with all public health and minimum yard requirements. Upon the
expiration of the time period or occupancy of the newly constructed residence,
the temporary dwelling shall be removed from the property or otherwise brought
into complete conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary construction operations, such as, but not limited to, the
batching or mixing of portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete shall be
allowed in all districts; provided, petitions from all land owners within 500
feet of operation are provided the Administrator. If petitions cannot be
obtained, an appeal may be made by the special permit procedure. The permit
will only be good for a period not greater than two years or the completion of
the project, whichever is the earlier date. Under no circumstances will the
sale of products from these operations be allowed, except for use on the
principal project.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.009 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following site restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Soil conditions.
      (1)   No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is held
unsuitable for the use or structure by the City Council by reason of flooding,
concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation,
unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength, erosion
susceptibility or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
prosperity, aesthetic and general welfare of the city.
      (2)   The City Council, in applying the provisions of this section, shall
in writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that
the land is not suitable for certain uses. The applicant shall have an
opportunity to present evidence contesting the unsuitability, if he or she so
desires. Thereafter, the City Council may affirm, modify or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   Abutment on public thoroughfare. All lots shall abut upon a public
thoroughfare.
   (C)   Dedication. No zoning permit (building permit) shall be issued for a
lot that abuts a public street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed
width and located on that side thereof from which the required dedication has
not been secured.
   (D)   Dimensions of building sites.
      (1)   Lots not served by public sewer.
         (a)   General. In all districts, lot sizes shall be based on soil
capabilities. In no cases shall the lot size be less than those specified as
minimum requirements in §
155.065. However, the City Council may require lots larger than the minimums.
         (b)   Side yards. There shall be a side yard for each principal
building. Unless otherwise specifically required or permitted, the side yard
requirements for all other districts shall be those indicated as minimums in §
155.065.
      (2)   Lots served by public sewer. Lots served by public sewer shall be
as specified in §
155.065.
   (E)   Reduction or joint use. No lot, yard, parking area, building area or
other space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the
provisions of this chapter. No part of any lot, yard, parking area or other
space required for a structure or use shall be used for any other structure or
use.
   (F)   Substandard lots. A lot which does not contain sufficient area to
conform to the dimensional requirements of this chapter for yards, courts,
width, depth or open space may be developed provided:
      (1)   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
      (2)   Pre-existing substandard lots which have been properly platted and
recorded with the County Recorder shall be allowed to be developed; providing,
setback requirements are met; and
      (3)   Any lot utilizing septic tank filter fields must conform to the
City and State Board of Health standards regulating that development.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.010 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT.
   The Planning Commission and the City Council shall continuously develop
their comprehensive plan, including their planning policies to guide future
decisions. All comprehensive plan elements, in whatever degree of detail they
may embody, shall provide the basis for approval of all development under this
chapter, and no development shall be approved under this chapter which is in
conflict with any comprehensive plan elements.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.011 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair
or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law.
   (B)   However, wherever this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND MAPS
§ 155.025 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the geographic area
within the jurisdiction of this chapter is hereby divided into the following
use districts:
   (A)   A Agricultural District;
   (B)   B-1 General Commercial District;
   (C)   B-2 Convenience Commercial District;
   (D)   B-3 Highway Commercial District;
   (E)   FP Floodplain District;
   (F)   I General Industrial District;
   (G)   R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential;
   (H)   R-2 High Density Single-Family Residential;
   (I)   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District; and
   (J)   R-4 Mobile Home District.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.026 ZONING MAP DIRECTORY.
   The certified copy of the zoning map directory will bear on its face the
attestation of the Mayor and the City Clerk. It shall be on file and may be
viewed in the office of the City Clerk. It shall contain the zoning map for the
city.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.027 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   (1)   Boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the series of maps entitled "Zoning Map Directory, City of Farmer City,
Illinois" dated 3-9-1976 and which accompanies and is hereby declared to be a
part of this chapter.
      (2)   District boundaries shall be construed to follow: corporate limits;
public highways, alleys, easements and railroad rights-of-way or the lines
extended; soil mapping unit lines; unless otherwise noted in the Zoning Map
Directory.
   (B)   Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause the land vacated to
be automatically placed in the same district as the adjoining district. If a
vacated street or alley adjoins two different zones, the centerline of the
vacated street or alley shall constitute the zoning district.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.028 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any land which may be annexed to the city shall be placed in the R-1 Single-
Family Residential District until special action of the City Council shall
definitely assign the land to another district.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
DISTRICTS USE REGULATIONS
§ 155.040 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of this chapter in establishing an Agricultural District to
facilitate the proper use of lands best suited to agriculture through
preventing the admixture of urban and rural uses which creates incompatibility
and conflict, places unbalanced tax loads on agricultural lands to help pay for
urban services and contributes to the premature termination of agricultural
pursuits. This zone is also designed to prevent health hazards brought about by
the illogical placement of inappropriately high residential densities in the
otherwise open countryside.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.041 (RESERVED)
§ 155.042 (RESERVED)
§ 155.043 (RESERVED)
§ 155.044 R-1 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Low Density Residential
District is to provide areas for families wishing to live on large lots in
residential neighborhoods within communities.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.045 R-2 HIGH DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a High Density Single-Family
Residential District is to protect those residential areas of the community
that were developed in most part prior to World War II from encroachment from
potential conflicting uses and to provide for future residential and related
development and redevelopment.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.046 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Multi-Family Residential
District is to provide for the conversion of single-family structures to multi-
family structures in the established portions of the community where larger
two-story homes predominate and to provide new areas for modern multi-family
development.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.047 R-4 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a second High Density Single-
Family Residential District is to provide for people who wish to own a mobile
home placed on a privately owned lot.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.048 B-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a General Commercial District to
promote development of the existing principal commercial development in
municipalities.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.049 B-2 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Convenience Commercial
District is to provide for minor shopping areas at the edges of neighborhoods
to provide for the day-today needs for goods and services.
   (B)   These should not be of the type or magnitude to compete directly with
the uses found in the General Commercial District.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.050 B-3 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Highway Commercial District is
to provide appropriate areas for commercial establishments which are oriented
to the motoring public or which require large sites for off-street parking or
display of merchandise. Additionally, the establishment of the district is in
recognition of existing uses of this nature in decentralized locations, due in
part to the past and present shortage of potential commercial sites within the
urban centers.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.051 I GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a General Industrial District is
to recognize existing industrial development within the city and the
desirability of reserving additional land for possible new, expanded or
relocated industries. It is intended that land zoned for industry be located so
that conflict with incompatible uses would be minimized.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.052 FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Floodplain District
includes the following:
      (1)   Promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
      (2)   Conservation of the value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
      (3)   Generally enhancing aesthetic values throughout the city;
      (4)   Prevention of unwise developments in the flood hazard areas and
prevention of developments increasing the flood or drainage hazards to others;
      (5)   Protection of new buildings and major improvements to buildings
from flood damage;
      (6)   Protection of human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (7)   Lessening the burden on the taxpayers for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public and private buildings, facilities and
utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
      (8)   Maintenance of property values and a stable tax base by minimizing
the potential for creating flood blight areas;
      (9)   Making federally subsidized flood insurance available for
properties located in the city; and
      (10)   Providing for the sensible, orderly growth and development of an
environment that is especially sensitive to changes and encroachment from human
activity.
   (B)   All lands located in the unincorporated area of the city which are
shown to be within the special flood hazard areas shall be subject to the
standards, regulations and procedures established and contained in this
chapter.
      (1)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the application of these
regulations to lands which can be demonstrated by a competent engineering study
to lie inside the SFHA; conversely, any lands which can be demonstrated by a
competent engineering study to lie outside the SFHA may not be subject to these
regulations. If a particular owner(s), after a determination by the
Administrator, disputes whether a parcel or parcels of land are within the
SFHA, it shall be the responsibility of those particular owner(s) of the land
to prove whether or not the land in question is outside the SFHA.
      (2)   Where not otherwise prohibited in this chapter, all buildings shall
have all habitable and usable floor areas, including basements at an elevation
at least three feet above the base flood elevation. All mechanical equipment,
plumbing, electrical and other utility areas of a building shall also be at
least three feet above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   All underground utilities such as water, sewer and electric lines
shall be located or constructed to resist and to insulate the utilities from
flood hazards.
      (4)   Development in the floodway which causes or creates any increase in
the base flood elevation shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The degree of flood protection required by this section is considered
for regulatory purposes and is based on the available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human made or natural causes. This section does not
imply that development either inside or outside the special flood hazard area
will be free from flooding or damage. This section does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this section or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.053 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES, PROHIBITED USES, AND SPECIAL PERMIT USES
BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   Uses permitted, as indicated by "x", and uses allowed by special
use permit, as indicated by "s", are hereby established and shown for each use
district on the following tables.
      (2)   Uses which may be determined to be inside the special flood hazard
area shall be regulated by provisions and standards contained in this chapter.
      (3)   If no "x" or "s" is shown under a particular zoning district for a
particular use, the use shall be deemed prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   General. Uses not listed shall be considered the same as other
similar uses. The Administrator shall determine what is similar. If he or she
cannot make this determination, he or she shall consult the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      (2)   Principal uses.
SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES, PROHIBITED USES AND SPECIAL PERMIT USES
BY DISTRICT
 Agr. R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES, PROHIBITED USES AND SPECIAL PERMIT USES BY DISTRICT
                                                                  Agr. R- R- R- R- B- B- B- I FP
                                                                       1  2  3  4  1  2  3
Residential Uses
Apartment as accessory use to a principal use in the same                       x  x  x  s  s
building
Bed and breakfast                                                 s          x     x  x  x
Boarding or lodging house                                                    x     x  x  x
Dwelling, multi-family, moderate density                                     x     x  x  x
Dwelling, single-family                                           x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  s
Dwelling, two-family                                              x          x     x  x  x
Fraternity, sorority or student cooperative                                  x     s  s  s
Group homes
   If able to comply with the definition of family in §            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
155.005
   For persons with developmental disabilities, if unable or
unwilling to meet and comply with the definition of family in §       s  s  s  s  s  s  s  s
155.005
High-rise apartment building                                                 s     s  s  s
Hotel                                                                              x  x  x
Manufactured or mobile home                                                     x
Mobile home park                                                       s  s  s  s        s  s
Motel                                                                              x  x  x
Privately-owned and operated dormitory                                       x     s  s  s
Single-family dwelling or apartment for resident watchman or
caretaker employed on the premises as an accessory use to a                        x  x  x  x
principal use
Travel trailer camp                                                                      s  s
Agricultural Uses
Accessory structures or permitted uses                            x    s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
Agriculture                                                       x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x x
Agriculture accessory uses, farmstead and necessary appurtenant   x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
structures on any operating farm
Artificial lake on one or more acre                               s    s  s  s  s        s  s s
Commercial greenhouse and plant nursery                           x                s  s  x  x
Commercial greenhouse or other facility used for cultivation or   x                s  s  s  x
dispensing of medical cannabis
Farm chemicals and fertilizer sales including incidental storage  s                      s  s
and mixing of blended fertilizer
Farm equipment sales and services (includes sale of trucks and                              x
light industrial equipment)
Farm seed processing, packaging and sale, growing, developing,
processing, conditioning or selling of hybrid seed corn, seed     x    s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
beans, seed oats or other farm seeds
Feed and grain (sales only)                                       s                x  x  x  x
Grain storage elevator and bins                                                             x
Greenhouse (not exceeding 1,000 square feet)                      x                x  x  x  x
Livestock sales facility and stockyards (no slaughter of animals)                           x
Roadside produce sales stand                                      s                x  x  x  x
Public and Quasi-Public Facilities
Antenna fields                                                    s                         s
Church temple, chapel or synagogue                                x    x  x  x  x  x     x
Electrical substations and distribution centers                   x                         x
Fairgrounds including race tracks, grandstands and accessory uses                  s     s  s
and structures
Fire station                                                           s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
High pressure pumping stations for pumping gasoline, gas, oil and x                s     s  x
the like
Highway maintenance shops and yards including offices             x                s  s  x  x
Hospitals, public or private                                      s    s  s  s  s        s
Institution of an educational philanthropic or eleemosynary       x    x  x  x  x  x     x
nature
Microwave relay towers                                            s                s  s  x  x
Municipal or government building including post offices           s    s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
Nursing and shelter care homes, public or private                      s  s  s  s        s
Penal or correctional institution                                 s
Police station                                                         s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
Public or commercial sanitary landfill                            s                      s  s
Public or private library or art gallery                               s  s  x  s  x  x  x  x
Public or private museum                                               s  s  s  s  x  x  x  x
Public or private parking garage or lots (cars)                                    x  x  x  x
Public park or recreational facility (no camping)                 x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x x
Pumping stations (water or sewage)                                x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Race tracks including accessory structures                                         s     s  s
Radar installations and towers                                    s                      s  s
Radio and television studios, stations and towers                 s                s  s  s  s
Radio and television studios, stations (no towers)                                 x  x  x
Religious tent meeting                                            s    s  s  s  s  s  s  s  s
Schools, non-boarding, elementary, junior high, high or junior    x    x  x  x  x  x     x
college
Sewage disposal plant or lagoon                                   s                      s  x
Telephone exchanges                                                                x  x  x  x
Telephone, telegraph and power transmission lines and pipelines   x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Utility maintenance shops and yards                                                x  x  x  x
Utility offices                                                                    x  x  x  x
Waterworks, reservoirs, filtration plants                         s                      x  x
Business Uses; Personal Services
Barber or beauty shop                                                              x  x  x  s
Blue-printing and photostating stores                                              x  x  x  s
Clothing and costume rental stores                                                 x  x  x  s
Diaper, linen, towel and other similar supply services                             x  x  x  x
Dressmaking and tailor shops                                                       x  x  x  x
Dry cleaning and laundry-automatic, self-service only or hand                      x  x  x  s
laundries
Dry cleaning, laundry and dyeing establishments                                    s  s  s  x
Dry cleaning, pressing and laundry receiving stations                              x  x  x  s
Employment agencies                                                                x  x  x
Exterminating shops                                                                s  s  x  s
Home occupations                                                  x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Interior decorating shops                                                          x  x  x  s
Laboratories-medical and dental                                                    x  x  x  s
Medical or dental clinic or office                                     s  s  s  s  x  x  x
Millinery shop                                                                     x  x  x  s
Newspapers and magazine publishers                                                 s  s  x  x
Nursery, kindergarten and day care facility                       s    s  s  s  s  s  s  x  s
Photography studios, including the developing of films and                         x  x  s  s
pictures
Physical culture and health services- gymnasiums, reducing                         s  s  x  s
salons, massage salons, and public baths
Printing shops                                                                     x  x  x  x
Radio and television service and repair shops                                      x  x  x  s
Recording studios                                                                  x  x  x  s
Riding academies                                                  x
Schools- buses, commercial or trade                                                s  s  x  x
Schools- music or dance                                                            x  x  x  s
Shoe repair shop                                                                   x  x  x  s
Taxidermists                                                                       x  x  x  s
Ticket agencies- amusement                                                         x  x  x  s
Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices                                   x  x  x  s
Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors                         s  s  s  s  x  x  x  s
Business Uses; Food Sales and Services
Bakeries (less than 2,500 square feet)                                             x  x  x  x
Catering establishments                                                            x  x  x  s
Confectionery store                                                                x  x  x  s
Dairy store                                                                        x  x  x  s
Drive-in restaurant                                                                x  x  x  s
Food stores, supermarkets, meat markets, fish markets and                          x  x  x  s
delicatessens
Frozen food stores, including locker rental                                        x  x  x  x
Fruit stores and stands                                                            x  x  x  s
Restaurant (indoor service only-may include catering)                              x  x  x  s
Restaurant- including live entertainment and dancing                               x  x  x  s
Restaurants- including the serving of alcoholic beverages if                       x  x  x  s
incidental to the serving of food as the principal activity
Retail liquor sales                                                                x  x  x  s
Tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, night club, with or without food                     x  x  x  s
Business Uses; Business, Private and Financial Services
Bank                                                                               x  x  x
Business and professional offices                                                  x  x  x
Insurance and real estate office                                                   x  x  x
Saving and loan association, financial institutions                                x  x  x
Temporary real estate sales or rental office, model home or            s  s  s  s  x  x  x  s
apartment for a period not to exceed two years
Commercial Transportation Uses
Airport                                                           s
Airstrips                                                         x
Bus stations                                                                       x  x  x  x
Heliport                                                          s    s  s  s  s  s  s  s  s
Railroad stations                                                                           x
Taxi stand or offices                                                              x  x  x  x
Truck terminal                                                    s                s  s  s  x
Business Uses; Retail Sales
Antique shop or used furniture sales and service                                   x  x  x  x
Apparel shop                                                                       x  x  x  s
Automat-vending machines- ice, milk, and the like sales                            x  x  x  s
Bicycle sales and services                                                         x  x  x  s
Building material sales- for retail sales of dimension lumber,
millwork, cabinets, concrete blocks, brick, hardware and similar                   x     x  x
building materials, but not including processing or manufacture
of millwork and excluding concrete or asphalt mixing
Business and office machines and service                                           x  x  x  s
Camera and photographic supply stores                                              x  x  x  s
Carpet and rug stores                                                              x  x  x  s
China and glassware stores                                                         x  x  x  s
Coin and philatelic stores                                                         x  x  x  s
Commercial advertising and business sign shops                                     x  x  x  x
Department store                                                                   x  x  x  s
Drug store                                                                         x  x  x  s
Dry goods store                                                                    x  x  x  s
Electrical, gas and household appliance stores, including radio                    x  x  x  s
and television sales and service
Florist shops and conservatories                                                   x  x  x  s
Fuel and ice sales- for retail sales of coal and other solid                       x  x  x  s
fuels and oil and other liquid fuels not under pressure
Furniture store- office furniture                                                  x  x  x  s
Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning                   x  x  x  s
Haberdasheries                                                                     x  x  x  s
Hardware stores                                                                    x  x  x  s
Hobby shops                                                                        x  x  x  s
Jewelry store including watch repair                                               x  x  x  s
Lawnmower sales and service                                                        x  x  x  s
Leather goods and luggage stores                                                   x  x  x  s
Locksmith shops, sales and service                                                 x  x  x  s
Mail order houses                                                                  x  x  x  s
Monument sales (excludes stone cutting)                                            x  x  x  s
Musical instrument sales and repair                                                x  x  x  s
Newsstand- book store                                                              x  x  x  s
Optical sales, retail                                                              x  x  x  s
Orthopedic and medical appliance stores- retail only                               x  x  x  s
Paint and wallpaper stores                                                         x  x  x  s
Pawn shop                                                                          x  x  x  s
Pet shop                                                                           x  x  x  s
Phonograph record and sheet music stores                                           x  x  x  s
Plumbing showrooms, sales and service                                              x  x  x  s
Religious goods stores                                                             x  x  x  s
Second-hand stores and rummage shops                                               x  x  x  s
Sewing machine sales and service                                                   x  x  x  s
Shoe store                                                                         x  x  x  s
Shopping center                                                                          s  s
Sporting goods sales and service                                                   x  x  x  s
Stationary- gift shop- art supplies, school supplies                               x  x  x  s
Tobacconist                                                                        x  x  x  s
Toy stores                                                                         x  x  x  s
Variety stores                                                                     x  x  x  s
Business Uses; Recreational
Amusement establishments- bowling alleys, dance halls,
gymnasiums, swimming pools, skating rinks, archery ranges                          s  s  x  s
(enclosed), shoot galleries (enclosed) and similar uses
Amusement park, including permanent carnivals, kiddie parks, golf
driving ranges, par three and miniature golf courses and other                     s  s  s  s
similar outdoor amusement facilities
Bait sales                                                                         x  x  x  x s
Boat sales, rentals, storage and repair including sales and
service of marine motors, boat parts and accessories and boat     s                s  s  x  x
fuels
Circus or carnival                                                                 s     s  s
Commercial fishing lake                                           s                         s s
Country club or golf course                                       s    s
Lodge or private club (non-profit)                                s                x  s  x  x
Marinas and boat landing facilities including boat sales,
rentals, storage and repair, sales and service of marine motors,                              s
boat parts and accessories and boat fuel sales
Music festivals                                                   s                s  s  s  s
Pool halls, billiard room                                                          x  x  x  s
Public camp or park area                                          s                           s
Resort or organized camp                                          s                           s
Riding stable                                                     s
Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge
Skeet and trap, rifle, handgun ranges (outdoors)                  s
Stadium or coliseum, auditoriums and arenas- open or enclosed                            s  s
Theater, enclosed                                                                  x  x  x  s
Theater, outdoor                                                                         s  s
Business Uses; Miscellaneous
Aggregate stockpile areas                                                                s  x
Auction house (non-animal)                                                         s  s  s  x
Aviation sales, service or storage                                s
Bituminous concrete mixing plant                                                         s  x
Cemetery or crematory                                             s    s  s  s  s
Christmas tree sales lot                                          x                x  x  x  x
Commercial breeding facility                                      x                           s
Contractors and construction offices, shops, without outside      s                x  x  x  x
storage
Contractors and construction outside storage with or without      s                s  s  s  x
offices and shops
Kennel                                                            s                      s  s
Landscape waste composting facility                               s
Mining, loading and hauling of sand, gravel, topsoil, stone or    s                         s s
other aggregates
Mining of coal                                                    s                         s s
Mobile home sales                                                                        s  s
Model homes or garage displays                                         s  s  s  s  s  s  x  x
Oil extraction                                                    x                         s s
Parcel delivery, cartage and express facilities                                    s  s  x  x
Portland cement concrete mixing or batch plant                                           s  x
Signs (300 square feet maximum size)                              x                s  s  s  x
Signs (over 300 square feet)                                                                s
Storage or construction equipment and supplies for the use on a
construction project for the duration
   Upon the construction property                              x                         x
   Upon adjacent property                                      x                         x
Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not   x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
to exceed the duration of the construction
Travel trailer sales                                                                     s  s
Veterinary hospital or establishment                              s                      s  s
Wholesale business                                                                 s  s  s  x
Industrial
Breweries                                                                                   x
Commercial bakeries (greater than 2,500 sq. ft.)                                         s  x
Dairy plants                                                                             s  x
Equipment repairs and storage                                                      s     s  x
Feed mills                                                                               s  x
Light industry                                                                     s     s  x
Machine shops                                                                      s     s  x
Manufacturing and bottling of non-alcoholic beverages                                       x
Manufacturing, fabrication, packing, packaging and assembly of
products from:
   Furs                                                                                  x
   Glass                                                                                 x
   Leather                                                                               x
   Metals                                                                                x
   Paper                                                                                 x
   Plaster                                                                               x
   Textiles                                                                              x
   Wood                                                                                  x
Manufacturing, fabrication, processing packaging and packing of:
   Confections                                                                           x
   Cosmetics                                                                             x
   Electrical appliances                                                                 x
   Electronic devices                                                                    x
   Toiletries                                                                            x
Railroad or truck freight yards                                                       s  s  x
Railroad roundhouses, maintenance shops and storage                                         x
Research laboratories                                                                 s  s  x
Storage and sale of machinery and equipment                                        s     s  x
Warehousing                                                                        s     s  x
Heavy Industrial
Bag cleaning                                                                                s
Bleacheries                                                                                 s
Bulk gas storage and sales (gasoline)                                              s     s  x
Bulk storage of propane, butane, or similar hydrocarbon products                   s     s  s
for distribution
Canneries                                                                                   s
Cold storage warehouse                                                                      x
CO2 injection wells                                               Prohibited in all districts
Creosoting, pina testing, or similar treatment of wood products                             s
and their storage
Drainage ditches, flumes and necessary appurtenant structures     x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x x
Electric generating stations, necessary appurtenant facilities
and structures, including dams, spillways, water reservoirs,                                x x
artificial lakes, cooling towers, facilities and related
structures
Electroplating                                                                              s
Enameling                                                                                   s
Forges                                                                                      s
Foundries                                                                                   s
Heavy industry such as, but not restricted to, the following:
manufacturing, processing and storage of: abrasives, acetylene,
acid, alkalies, ammonia, asbestos, asphalt, batteries, bedding,
bleach, bone, foods, candles, carpeting, celluloid, cement,
charcoal, chemicals, chlorine, coal tar, cordage, creosote,
dectrine, disinfectant, dye, excelsior, felt, fuel, furs,
glucose, gypsum, hair products, ink, insecticide, lime products,                            s
linoleum, matches, oil cloth, paint, paper, perfume, plaster of
paris, plastics, poison, potash, pulp, pyroxilin, radium, rope,
rubber, starch, stove polish, textiles, varnish, building
materials, explosives, dry ice, fat, fertilizer, flammables,
gasoline, glue, grease, lard, radioactive material, shellac,
soap, turpentine, vinegar, yeasts
Incinerators                                                                                s
Lacquering                                                                                  s
Lithographing                                                                               s
Offal                                                                                       s
Oil, coal and bone distillation                                                             s
Outside storage and manufacturing areas                                                     s
Railroad rights-of-way, railroad tracks, spur tracks and               x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x x
auxiliary facilities for railroad track operations
Refineries                                                                                  s
Road test facilities                                                                        s
Rubbish or animal reduction                                                                 s
Slaughter houses                                                                            s
Smelting                                                                                    s
Tanneries                                                                                   s
Weaving                                                                                     s
Wrecking, junk demolition and scrap yards                         s                         s
 
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24; Am. Ord. 1136A, passed 2-3-25)
AREA REGULATIONS
§ 155.065 DISTRICT LOT REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or alter any structure within the county or
the incorporated municipalities affected by this chapter, unless the following
minimum lot and yard areas and bulk controls are provided and maintained in
connection with the structure.
MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
         Minimum    Maximum  Minimum Minimum   Minimum  Minimum  Minimum Side
District Area       Building Width   Road      Front    Rear     Yard Setback
         (sq. ft.)  Height   (ft)    Frontage  Setback  Setback
         (g)        (ft) (i)         (ft)      (ft) (a) (ft)     (ft) (b)
MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
         Minimum    Maximum  Minimum Minimum   Minimum  Minimum  Minimum Side
District Area       Building Width   Road      Front    Rear     Yard Setback
         (sq. ft.)  Height   (ft)    Frontage  Setback  Setback
         (g)        (ft) (i)         (ft)      (ft) (a) (ft)     (ft) (b)
A        87,120     None     240     240       50       35       15
RD-1 (h) 87,120     60       240     240       50 (e)   35       15
RD-2     87,120     35       240     240       50       35       15
RD-3     21,780     35       150     150       30       20       15
R-1      12,150     35       90      90        30       20 (c)   10
R-2      7,350      35       70      70        20       20 (c)   6
R-3      9,600 (d)  60       80      80        20       20 (c)   6
R-4      7,350      35       70      70        20       20 (c)   6
B-1      None       60       None    None      None     None     None
B-2      8,500      35       66      66        30 (e)   20 (e)   10
B-3 (f)  21,780     35       66      66        50 (e)   20       20
I (f)    8,500      None     66      66        10       30       10
FP       None       None     None    None (i)  None     None     None
Notes to table:
(a)   Where adjacent structures have front yard setbacks different from those
required, the minimum front yard setback shall be the average setback of the
structure.
(b)   Buildings over two stories in height shall require five feet for each
additional story in addition to the required minimum side yard.
(c)   Detached residential structures may be constructed five feet from the
rear property line and three feet from an interior lot line; provided, the
provisions of § 155.096(B)(5) are met. Non-residential structures in
districts in Districts A, RD-1 and RD-2 may be constructed 15 feet from the
rear property line.
(d)   Multi-family dwellings must also comply with the land use intensity
standards given in § 155.046.
(e)   May be used for parking development.
(f)   Highway access (includes entrance and exit) shall not be permitted in
less than 500-foot intervals.
(g)   Exceptions from building height maximums may be granted as a special
use permit.
 
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24; Am. Ord. 1136A, passed 2-3-25)
SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 155.080 APPLICATION.
   The following regulations set forth in this sub chapter shall apply to all
zoning districts unless specifically stated otherwise. Determination of
potential or actual non-compliance with the special regulations shall be made
by the City Council or its duly appointed agent.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.081 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residual features. No activity or operation shall be established or
maintained which, by reason of its nature or manner of operation, will cause
the emission of noise, odor, toxic or noxious fumes, smoke, dust and
particulate matter in concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, welfare, comfort and safety or cause injury to property or
business.
   (B)   Glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area or
sign shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential property or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected glare,
whether from flood lights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property.
   (C)   Explosives. No activities involving the storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials, goods or products which could decompose by detonation
shall be permitted, except such as are specifically licensed by the City
Council.
   (D)   Vibration. No activity or operation shall cause earth vibrations
perceptible beyond the limits of the lot upon which the operation is located,
except such as are specifically permitted by the City Council.
   (E)   Enclosed space. All fabrication, manufacturing, processing or
production shall be undertaken substantially within enclosed buildings.
   (F)   Screening. Where outdoor storage of materials, goods and products
exists within the General Industrial District, the storage shall be effectively
screened from adjacent residential districts and public streets by a solid
fence, compact hedge or similar opaque landscaped element. The screening shall
be placed along property lines or, in the case of screening along a street, 15
feet from the street right-of-way or adjacent property line with landscaping
between the screening and the pavement a louvered fence shall be considered
"solid" if it blocks direct vision.
   (G)   Refuse. All waste material, debris, refuse or garbage not disposed of
through the public sanitary sewerage system shall be kept in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed container designed for those
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the land
free of refuse.
   (H)   Landscaping. In all but the General Commercial and General Industrial
Districts all developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard along all streets.
The yard shall be kept clear of structures and storage except off-street
parking. The yard shall be at least eight feet in depth along all streets,
measured from the street right-of-way. Except for driveways, the yard shall
extend the entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a
corner lot.
   (I)   Drainage. No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted
that results in water run-off, flooding or erosion on adjacent properties. The
run-off shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, water course, ponding
area or other public facilities.
   (J)   Construction within the floodplain. Construction in areas subject to
flooding shall conform to regulations set forth in §
155.052.
   (K)   Junk motor vehicles or equipment. Parking of junk motor vehicles or
equipment is prohibited in all areas, except industrial districts. All
contractor's equipment or tools or junk motor vehicles shall be parked or
stored in a completely enclosed structure on any residential premises, except
when making a delivery or rendering a service at the premises. Contractor's
equipment shall not be construed to include pickup or paneled trucks.
   (L)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers and dispensaries - compliance
with state regulations and rules. Each cultivation center and all dispensaries
shall comply with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act
(ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.) and all rules and regulations adopted in
accordance thereto.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.082 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of parking spaces required:
      (1)   None required in General Commercial District (to be provided in
common area);
      (2)   Single-family dwellings: two per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Multi-family units: 1.2 per dwelling unit, except elderly housing
projects which shall have one-half space per dwelling unit;
      (4)   Churches, auditoriums, mortuaries and other similar places of
assembly; one for every four seats;
      (5)   Sanitariums, convalescent homes: one for four beds;
      (6)   Retail commerce other than in General Commercial District:
         (a)   Restaurant: one for every three seats; and
         (b)   Other retail: one for every 100 square feet of retail floor
space, but in no case less than one and one-half square feet (gross parking
area) to one square foot (gross building floor area).
      (7)   Service commerce other than General Commercial District:
         (a)   Motels: one per unit;
         (b)   Personal and professional offices: one for every 150 square feet
of office floor space; and
         (c)   Other service commerce: one for 2,000 square feet of gross floor
space.
      (8)   Industrial including wholesale: one for every 1.3 persons of
maximum employment during any work period; and
      (9)   Mobile home parks: two spaces per lot.
   (B)   Minimum size of parking spaces: 250 square feet of standing and
maneuvering space.
   (C)   Location of parking spaces.
      (1)   Spaces for dwelling on the same lot as the dwelling unit;
      (2)   Spaces for commercial uses not in the General Commercial District
or for public or semi-public uses within 300 feet of the main entrance of the
building served; and
      (3)   No off-street parking spaces to be located within five feet of any
street right-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage off-street parking areas and access ways other
than those for one- and two-family dwellings shall be surfaced with a durable
material to control dust and shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface
water.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.083 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required. An adequate
number of off-street loading spaces shall be provided for all structures which
require the receipt and distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles so as to assure unrestricted movement of both pedestrians and
motor vehicles throughout the entire active areas of the municipality.
   (B)   Minimum size of off-street loading berths.
      (1)   Width: ten feet;
      (2)   Length: 50 feet; and
      (3)   Vertical clearance: 14 feet.
   (C)   Location of off-street loading berths. No closer than 25 feet from the
intersection of two street rights-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage. Surfacing and drainage of off-street loading
berths and access- ways shall be hard surfaced to control dust and shall be
graded to dispose of all surface water.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.084 SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except those specified in division (B) of this
section, no signs shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted or structurally altered without a zoning permit
and without being in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The sign
shall also meet all structural requirements of other applicable codes and
ordinances of the city and state statutes.
   (B)   Signs excepted. All signs must have a building permit, except the
following:
      (1)   Signs over show windows or doors of a non-conforming business
establishment announcing without display or elaboration only the name and
occupation of the proprietor and not to exceed two feet in height and ten feet
in length;
      (2)   Real estate signs not to exceed eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which the signs are
temporarily located;
      (3)   Name, occupation and warning signs not to exceed two square feet
located on the premises;
      (4)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions
not to exceed 32 square feet in area located on the premises;
      (5)   Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and affixed flat
against the structure;
      (6)   Official signs such as traffic control, parking restrictions,
information and notices; and
      (7)   Temporary signs when authorized by the Administrator for a period
not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Signs permitted. Signs are permitted for all commercial and industrial
uses subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings shall not
extend more than six inches outside of building's wall surface, shall not
exceed 300 square feet in area for any one premises, and shall not exceed 20
feet in height above the main centerline street grade.
      (2)   Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from or supported by
structures shall not exceed 300 square feet in area for any one premises; shall
not extend more than six feet into any required yard; shall not extend more
than three feet into any public right-of-way; shall not be less than ten feet
above the sidewalk nor 15 feet above a driveway or an alley.
      (3)   Ground signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the main
centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the district in
which they are located and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for
any one premises.
      (4)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof,
shall meet all yard and height requirements for the district in which they are
located and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any one premises.
      (5)   Combinations of any of the above signs shall meet all the
requirements for the individual sign.
   (D)   Signs specifically prohibited.
      (1)   Signs that display the words "stop" or "danger"; and
      (2)   Signs utilizing flashing lights.
   (E)   Facing. No sign except those permitted in division (B) of this section
shall be permitted to face a residential use within 100 feet of the lot line.
   (F)   Traffic. Signs shall not resemble, imitate or approximate the shape,
size, form or color of railroad or traffic signs or devices. Signs shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effect of railroad or traffic signs, signals or
devices. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape; and no sign
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall be placed as to
obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility.
   (G)   Existing signs.
      (1)   Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of
this chapter may be continued although the use, size or location does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   However, it shall be deemed a non-conforming use or structure and
the provisions of §§
155.110 through
155.113 shall apply.
   (H)   Miscellaneous requirements.
      (1)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign or owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut, and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which the
sign is located.
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure which may be or may hereafter become
rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the licensee, owner
or manager of the property upon which the sign stands upon written notice of
the Administrator or police officer.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.085 KENNELS; VETERINARY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   They shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any residential
district, restaurant, hotel or motel in any district and shall show that
adequate measures and controls shall be taken to prevent offensive noise and
odor.
   (B)   No incineration of refuse shall be permitted on the premises.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.086 COUNTRY CLUB; GOLF COURSE.
   (A)   No building shall be located within 100 feet of any property line.
   (B)   Facilities such as restaurants and bars may be permitted when
conducted and entered from within the building.
   (C)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and the like shall be located no less
than 25 feet from any property line and adjoining property in any residence or
commercial district shall be effectively protected by a wall hedge and/or
screen planting.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.087 GOLF DRIVING RANGES AND AMUSEMENT PARKS.
   Golf driving ranges and amusement parks shall be located on major or
secondary thoroughfares or non-residential streets. Flood lights used to
illuminate the premises are so directed and shielded as not to be an annoyance
to any developed residential property. Golf driving platforms shall not be less
than 200 feet from any adjacent residence district or existing dwelling. A
temporary certificate may be granted to be in force for one year only which
certificate may be renewed for a period of one year at the expiration of the
certificate; provided, all requirements of this chapter have been and can
continue to be complied with.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.088 CEMETERIES; CREMATORIES; COLUMBARIUMS.
   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums and columbariums shall provide entrance
on a major street or road with ingress and egress so designated as to minimize
traffic congestion, shall provide required off-street parking space and shall
provide a minimum six-foot high wall or minimum three-foot thick, six-foot high
evergreen hedge or provide a minimum 20 feet of permanently maintained planting
strip on all property lines abutting any residential district or residential
street.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.089 HOSPITALS, CHURCHES OR OTHER RELIGIOUS OR ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTIONS.
   Hospital, church or other religious or eleemosynary institutions shall be
located on a major street on a minimum parcel of one-half acre and shall
maintain a ten-foot wide minimum landscaped strip on all property lines
abutting residential districts and on all residential streets.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.090 SHOOTING CLUB.
   A shooting club shall not be located within one mile of any developed
residential, commercial or industrial area, or place of public assembly. A
temporary certificate will be granted, to be in force for one year only, which
certificate may be renewed for a period of one year at the expiration of each
temporary certificate; provided, the above requirements are met.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.091 AMUSEMENT CENTERS, BOWLING ALLEYS, DANCE HALLS AND SIMILAR PLACES OF
AMUSEMENT.
   Amusement centers, bowling alleys, dance halls and similar places of
amusement shall provide parking with ingress and egress designed so as to
minimize traffic congestions, shall not be less than 20 feet from any property
lines, provide a minimum six-foot solid board fence or masonry wall separating
parking areas from abutting residential property and shall show that adequate
controls or measures will be taken to prevent offensive noise and vibration.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.092 APARTMENTS; MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The recreation space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage of
recreation space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than
0.16.
   (B)   The floor area ratio, defined as the maximum square footage or total
floor area permitted for each foot of land, is not more than 0.32.
   (C)   The open space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage of open
space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than 2.0.
   (D)   The living space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage of non-
vehicular outdoor space required for each square foot of floor area, is not
less than 1.2.
   (E)   The occupant car ratio, defined as the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces without parking time limits required for each living unit is not
less than 1.2; except that, in housing development projects for the elderly,
this ratio shall not be less than 0.5.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.093 STANDARDS FOR HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   General. It is the intent of this section to prohibit as home
occupations all uses except those that conform to the standards as set forth in
this section. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use, so located and
conducted, that the average citizen, under normal circumstances, would not be
aware of its existence other than for a nameplate as permitted elsewhere in
this section. The standards for home occupations in this section are intended
to help ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and with the residential
character of the area, plus a clearly secondary or incidental status in
relation to the residential use of the property as the criteria for determining
whether a proposed accessory use qualifies as a home occupation.
   (B)   Authorization. Home occupations are permitted in any dwelling unit
subject to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Permitted home occupations. The following are examples of uses which
often can be conducted within the limits of the provisions of this section, as
a home occupation. Uses which qualify as home occupations are not necessarily
limited to those named in this section, nor does the listing of a use in this
section automatically qualify that use as a permitted home occupation:
      (1)   Artists and sculptors;
      (2)   Authors and composers;
      (3)   Dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors;
      (4)   Family day care home, limited to no more than 12 children or less
with child care assistants ; provided that, all state and local rules and
regulations are met;
      (5)   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work and
woodworking;
      (6)   Office facility for a minister, pastor, priest or rabbi;
      (7)   Office facility for a salesperson, sales representative or
manufacturer's representative; provided that, any transaction which may occur
does not include the exchange or delivery of goods, products or materials to
the customer other than small parcels which may be easily carried by the
average citizen;
      (8)   Office facility for an architect, artists, broker, dentist,
physician, engineer, instructor in arts and crafts, insurance agent, land
surveyor, lawyer, musician or real estate agent;
      (9)   School of special education whose class size does not exceed two
pupils at any given time;
      (10)   Antique shop, except the stripping and refinishing of furniture
and the storage of chemicals used in the stripping and refinishing of furniture
shall not be permitted;
      (11)   Barbershop and beauty shop;
      (12)   Photography studio;
      (13)   Music or dance lessons, provided class size does not exceed two
pupils at any one time; and, provided that, the use of amplified instruments is
not involved;
      (14)   Upholstering;
      (15)   Repair shop or service establishments; provided that, the repairs
shall be limited to the repair of small electrical appliances, cameras and
similar items; and
      (16)   Gun smithing.
   (D)   Home occupations prohibited. The following uses by their nature,
investment or operation have a substantial tendency to be out of character,
offensive or potentially injurious to the public.
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Clinics or hospitals;
      (3)   Restaurants;
      (4)   Stables or kennels;
      (5)   Day care centers (except family day care homes for 12 children or
less with child care assistants);
      (6)   Mortuaries;
      (7)   Private clubs;
      (8)   Renting equipment, vehicles, trailers and other similar items;
      (9)   Apartments and boarding rooms;
      (10)   Automobile, truck, boat and similar repairs, minor or major;
      (11)   Dental and medical offices;
      (12)   Private schools with organized classes;
      (13)   Ammunition reloading;
      (14)   Body shop;
      (15)   Painting shop for cars, trucks, trailers and the like;
      (16)   Retail sales and display establishments;
      (17)   Commercial storage or warehousing; and
      (18)   Carpentry shop.
   (E)   Use limitations. In addition to the provisions of the particular
zoning districts in which located, all home occupations shall be subject to the
following additional use limitations.
      (1)   A home occupation must be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
which is the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner, or in an
accessory building thereto, which is normally associated with a residential
use.
      (2)   Except for items or articles produced on the premises, no stock in
trade shall be displayed or sold on the premises.
      (3)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the
principal residential use.
      (4)   Not more than one employee, other than members of the family
residing on the premises, may be engaged in the occupation.
      (5)   In no way shall the appearance of the structure be altered or
changed, or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner which
would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either by the
use of colors, materials, construction, entrances and exits, lighting, signs or
the emission of sounds, noises or vibration.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (7)   No commercial vehicle type shall be used in connection with the
home occupation or parked on the premises.
      (8)   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to the home
occupation.
      (9)   Only one nameplate shall be allowed. It may display the name of the
occupant and/or the name of the home occupation (such as, Joe Doe, Accountant).
It shall not exceed one square foot in area, shall be non-illuminated and shall
be attached to the main structure, visible through a window or attached to a
single pole not more than six feet high, and located on the premises, not upon
any public way. The limitation to one nameplate is intended to apply to all
lots, including corner lots.
      (10)   All delivery of goods and materials used in the home occupation
shall be made by ordinary and common parcel delivery vans, not to include large
motor freight carrier vehicles.
   (F)   Permit required. Any person desiring to establish a home occupation is
required to submit a permit application and secure the required permit, prior
to the establishment of the proposed home occupation, on forms provided by the
Administrator.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.094 (RESERVED)
§ 155.095 MOBILE HOME RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured and mobile homes may be placed only in the R-4 Mobile
Home Residential District or in areas approved and licensed as mobile home
parks by the State Department of Public Health (IDPH).
   (B)   (1)   In areas located in the R-4 District, the minimum lot
requirements contained in this chapter shall be met.
      (2)   Lot sizes within mobile home parks shall be regulated by the IDPH.
   (C)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall comply with the provisions of the
Mobile Home Owners Tiedown Act, being ILCS Ch. 210, Act 120, as administered by
the IDPH.
   (D)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall have impervious materials,
commonly referred to as "skirting", completely surrounding the perimeter of the
dwelling between the floor and the ground surface.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.096 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Height. The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this
chapter may be exceeded, but the modification shall be in accord with the
following:
      (1)   Architectural projections, such as spires, belfries, parapet walls,
cupolas, domes, flues and chimneys, are exempt from the height limitations of
this chapter;
      (2)   Special structures, such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, electric generating stations, lightening rods, scenery lofts, radio
and television receiving antennas, manufacturing equipment and necessary
mechanical appurtenances, cooling towers, fire towers, substations, smoke
stacks and flag poles are exempt from the height limitations of this chapter;
      (3)   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines are exempt from the height limitations of this
chapter;
      (4)   Communication structures, such as radio and television transmission
relay towers, aerials and observation towers, shall not exceed in height three
times their distance from the nearest lot line; and
      (5)   Public or semi-public facilities, such as schools, churches,
hospitals, monuments, sanitariums, libraries, governmental offices and
stations, may be erected to a height of 60 feet; provided, all required yards
are increased not less than one foot for each foot the structure exceeds the
district's maximum height requirements.
   (B)   Yards. Residential accessory uses and detached, residential garages,
storage sheds and other similar buildings are permitted in the rear yard only,
shall comply with all minimum front yard requirements of this code, but may be
constructed five feet from the rear lot line and three feet to an interior lot
line. They shall not exceed more than 25 feet in height. However, a detached
residential garage proposed to be constructed having its vehicular access doors
facing toward the front lot line shall not be closer than 25 feet from the
front property line. These restrictions do not apply to structures used only
for agricultural purposes.
      (1)   Uncovered stairs, landings and fire escapes may project into any
yard, but not to exceed six feet and not closer than three feet to any lot
line.
      (2)   Architectural projections, such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves,
belt courses and ornaments, may project into any required yard; but the
projection shall not exceed two feet.
      (3)   Residential fences are permitted to be erected on the property
line; provided that, in any required front yard, they shall be no higher than
four feet in height and shall be of an open type (such as, chain link or
wrought iron) which does not limit, inhibit or restrict reasonable visibility
through it by pedestrians, cyclists or motorists. Fences erected along interior
lot lines or the rear property line may be solid and shall not exceed eight
feet in height.
      (4)   Security fences for commercial, industrial or governmental uses are
permitted to be erected on property lines; provided that, they shall be no
higher than ten feet in height, shall be of an open type such as chain link or
wrought iron and not in conflict with §
155.081.
      (5)   Accessory uses and detached accessory structures may be permitted,
provided that they are not proposed to be constructed or erected in the front
yard and comply with the remaining provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Essential services, utilities, electrical power and communication
transmission lines are exempt from the yard and distance requirements of this
chapter.
      (7)   Landscaping and vegetation may be planted and maintained on
property lines. Landscaping planted in the front shall be of the type and
variety that it does not limit, inhibit or restrict reasonable visibility
through it by either pedestrians, cyclists or the motorists. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to maintain, trim or otherwise ensure that
landscaping and vegetation do not encroach upon any public way or cause
visibility problems.
   (C)   Additions. Additions in the front yards of existing structures shall
not project beyond the average of the existing front yards on the abutting lot
or parcels.
   (D)   Average front yards. The required front yards may be decreased to the
average of the existing front yards of the abutting structures on each side.
   (E)   Noise. Sirens, whistles and bells which are maintained and utilized
solely to serve a public purpose are not to be enjoined under the performance
standards section of this chapter.
   (F)   General filling. Filling of low areas with earth or gravel or with
earth covered bricks, blocks, broken concrete or broken paving material, all
free from refuse, as may be permitted by the State Environmental Protection
Agency and the County Health Department; provided that, the areas are not
located in the special flood hazard area. This provision shall not relieve any
property owner from compliance with any other applicable laws, regulations or
agreements.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.097 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   On a property of four acres or more, two single-family dwellings will be
permitted if the property conforms completely to the following.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings are permitted in the zoned district.
   (B)   If the property is divided, it will consist of two lots, each having a
single-family dwelling and each lot fully conforming to all the requirements of
the zoned districts.
   (C)   Both dwellings are served by separate sanitary facilities.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.098 LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY.
   All applications for permit for the establishment, construction and
operation of a landscape waste composting facility shall be subject to the
following exhibits, rules and standards.
   (A)   Required exhibits shall include the following:
      (1)   A boundary survey at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet together
with the complete legal description of the proposed property;
      (2)   A boundary map depicting the existing topography at no less than
two-foot contours, showing the ownership of all adjacent property and the
existence of any 100-year floodplains;
      (3)   A detailed site plan showing the existing and proposed drainage on
and adjacent to the proposed site, plans for ingress and egress, internal
access ways, existing and proposed buildings, structures, parking and landscape
waste storage areas on the site, the location of all buildings within 500 feet
of the proposed site boundary, the location of all wells within 500 feet of the
proposed site boundary;
      (4)   Written plans for dust and odor control, fire protection and
emergency response plan, a statement as to the depth of and the planned methods
to be used to ensure that compost and/or leachate does not penetrate the water
table, and the plans for collection and treatment of the leachate;
      (5)   A statement as to the landscape waste intended to be accepted,
methods of handling, machinery and equipment requirements, materials
anticipated to be produced at the site, handling and disposal plans for non-
compostable landscape waste, site security, lighting and procedures for drop-
off control;
      (6)   A list of all permits that have previously been issued on the site;
and
      (7)   The intended hours of operation.
   (B)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall comply with the following
rules and standards:
      (1)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located on a site
containing at least ten acres.
      (2)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located outside the
100-year floodplain.
      (3)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be prohibited from
accepting, collecting, storing, or in any way placing on the site any municipal
solid waste, garbage, junk, unlicensed and/or inoperative vehicles, building
demolition waste or other debris.
      (4)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located no closer
than 500 feet to any residential district, 660 feet from a building used and
intended to be used for residential purposes, 200 feet from any property line,
and 500 feet from any potable water well.
      (6)   All operators of landscape waste composting facilities shall make
semiannual reports upon the total tons of landscape waste accepted and total
tons of landscape waste marketed during the previous six months. This semi-
annual report is due on July 15 and January 15 for the period covering the
previous six months. This report shall be submitted to and shall be in the form
prescribed by the Administrator.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 155.110 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING LAND OR BUILDING.
   The lawful use of any land or building existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter may be continued, even if it does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter, except as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.111 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Alterations. A non-conforming building or structure shall not be
reconstructed or altered to an extent exceeding its assessed valuation for real
estate tax purposes, unless the building or structure is changed to conform
with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Enlargement. A non-conforming building or structure shall not be added
to or enlarged in any manner unless the additions or enlargements are made so
as to bring the building or structure into conformity with the regulations of
this chapter.
   (C)   Restoration. A non-conforming building or structure which is damaged
by fire or other cause to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed value
shall not be restored, except in conformity with the regulations of this
chapter.
   (D)   Abandonment. A non-conforming use of a building which has been
discontinued for a period of 30 days shall not be re-established and any future
use shall be in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Extension. A non-conforming use of a building may be extended
throughout the building; provided, no structural alterations are made therein.
   (F)   Relocation. A non-conforming building shall not be moved to any other
part of the parcel of land upon which it is located unless every portion of the
building is made to conform to all requirements of the district in which it is
located.
   (G)   Use change.
      (1)   If no structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of the
building may be changed to another non-conforming use of the same or of a more
restricted classification.
      (2)   Whenever a non-conforming use had been changed to a more restricted
use or to a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted use.
   (H)   Placement. A manufactured or mobile home may be placed; provided that,
the replacement home is moved onto the property and is located on its pad
within five days (120 hours) of the removal of the original home and that the
home being moved onto the property is not more than five years old at the time
of replacement.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.112 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   (A)   Expansion. A non-conforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   (B)   Relocation. A non-conforming use shall not be moved to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of passage
of this chapter, except by expressed authority of the City Council.
   (C)   Discontinuance. If a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of 30 days, it shall not be re-established and any future use shall be
in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.113 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Single-family and two-family residences established at the time of
adoption of this chapter in non-residential districts are exempt from this
section.
   (B)   These residences may be expanded and accessory structures may be
permitted; provided, all other requirements are met.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.125 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator shall be the same person serving as City Manager or
his/her designee.
   (B)   The specific duties of the Administrator shall include:
      (1)   Providing zoning information upon request;
      (2)   Receiving applications for building and occupancy permits,
reviewing the applications to determine if they comply with ordinance
provisions, and issuing or denying permits;
      (3)   Receiving applications for special use permits, variances,
amendments and appeals, referring the applications to the appropriate public
body, notifying affected property owners of the required public hearings and
publishing notice of the hearings;
      (4)   Conducting inspections;
      (5)   Investigating violations; and
      (6)   Keeping the zoning map and text up to date.
   (C)   The Administrator shall maintain on file the following documents:
      (1)   Copies of variation application papers and variation decisions as
they pertain to special flood hazard areas;
      (2)   Copies of elevation or flood proofing certificates and other
documents necessary to ensure that a project is constructed in compliance with
a variation resolution;
      (3)   Copies of annual reports and other correspondence with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   All records pertaining to the lowest floor elevation; and
      (5)   Issue all permits for development as defined in this chapter in any
special flood hazard area after all other federal and state permits have been
received by the applicant and presented to the City Manager.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.126 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permits. Hereafter, no building or structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall work begin upon
same until the required permit has been issued by the Administrator; except
that, no permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Exterior remodeling such as new siding, windows or roofing,
painting, installation of or removal of interior walls, new kitchens, baths and
carpeting, rearrangement of offices, manufacturing lines, warehouse space and
other similar remodeling activities;
      (2)   Exterior construction, reconstruction or alteration of a building
or structure which does not alter the size, shape, dimension or height of the
building or structure;
      (3)   Public utility structures and installations such as sanitary
sewers, laterals, vaults, electric lines, water lines, utility poles, cables,
tiles or other similar distribution components; and
      (4)   Buildings, structures or uses in a public federal, state or local
park; provided that, the uses are located at least 100 feet from any
residential property line, comply with the minimum yard requirements and are a
permitted use in the district which they are to be located.
   (B)   Occupancy permit.
      (1)   Here after, no change in the occupancy of land, or any change of
use or occupancy in a new or existing building other than for single-family
dwelling shall be made until an occupancy permit has been issued by the
Administrator. Every permit shall state that the new occupancy complies with
all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Except that, no occupancy permit will be required for land used or
to be used for agricultural purposes, storm sewers, farm tiles, sanitary
sewers, pipe lines and poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals
or any other similar distributing equipment of a public utility as defined in
an act entitled An Act Concerning Public Utilities.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Fees for the various permit and zoning applications are non-
refundable and are as follows:
         (a)   Single-family residential uses (including attached, detached
garages, carports, decks and porches): $100;
         (b)   Multiple-family residential uses (including attached/detached
garages, carports, decks and porches): $75, plus $30 per dwelling unit;
         (c)   Mobile homes: $35;
         (d)   Residential accessory buildings:
            1.   Forty dollars, if 500 feet squared or less;
            2.   Sixty dollars, if 501 to 750 feet squared;
            3.   Eighty dollars, if 751 to 1,000 feet squared;
            4.   Ninety dollars, if 1,001 to 1,500 feet squared; and
            5.   One hundred dollars, if 1,501 or more feet squared.
         (e)   Commercial or industrial building (includes principal and
accessory buildings and additions to either principal or accessory buildings):
$0.03 per foot squared of gross floor area; $50 minimum; plus review and
inspection fee after 7-1-2011;
         (f)   Special use applications:
            1.   Two hundred dollars if two acres or less;
            2.   Two hundred fifty dollars if greater than two acres, but less
than ten acres;
            3.   Three hundred dollars if greater than ten acres, but less than
26 acres; and
            4.   Twenty-six acres and over $100 plus $10 per acre.
         (g)   Re-zoning applications:
            1.   Two hundred dollars if two acres or less;
            2.   Two hundred fifty dollars if 2.01 to ten acres; and
            3.   Three hundred dollars if 10.01 acres or more.
         (h)   Variance applications: $150;
         (i)   Appeal applications: $100;
         (j)   Text amendments: $125;
         (k)   Occupancy permits (for changes in land use other than
agricultural, one-/two-family residence, public utility or government
purposes): $25; and
         (l)   Structures other than buildings: $0.001 x total estimated cost/
min: $25.
      (2)   By state law, no fees are charged for permits for buildings
intended to be used for agricultural purposes or for accessory buildings
located on an operating farm.
      (3)   Make checks payable to: City of Farmer City.
      (4)   Legal notice publication fees are to be paid by the applicant.
   (D)   Exhibits. Each application for a building permit and for an occupancy
permit for the use of land shall be accompanied by the following exhibits
unless waived by the Administrator.
      (1)   Boundary survey of an area including the property in question and
100 feet beyond its outer boundaries showing existing utilities, lot boundaries
and dimensions, buildings and easements, foliage, topography, waterways and
soil boring to be included if pertinent.
      (2)   Plot plan indicating location, size and placement of proposed
structure and yards, parking and loading facilities, vehicular access and
egress and utility plan including surface drainage.
   (E)   Permit application procedure. The procedure for applying for a
building permit and an occupancy permit shall be as follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the
Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedure and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Administrator.
      (3)   The Administrator shall issue a building permit and collect the
required fee if the proposed project complies with the provisions of this
chapter and other relevant city ordinances.
   (F)   Expiration of zoning use permits.
      (1)   At 90 days, the footings and foundation shall be in place and
crawlspace and/or basement shall be covered.
      (2)   At 150 days (an additional 60 days after issuance of permit), the
structure shall be framed, roofed and enclosed with materials intended for
permanent use.
      (3)   If the work described on any zoning use permit shall not have been
completed within 730 consecutive days from issuance thereof, the permit shall
expire and be cancelled by the Administrator, and written notice therefore
shall be given to the applicant together with notice that further work as
described on the cancelled permit shall not proceed until a new permit shall
have been issued.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.127 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals, hereinbefore and hereafter referred to
by the term "Zoning Board", is hereby authorized to be established.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the
Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. The seven members of the first Zoning
Board appointed shall serve terms as follows: one for one year, one for two
years, one for three years, one for four years and three for five years, the
successor to each member so appointed to serve for a term of five years.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired terms only, subject to
confirmation by the City Council. The City Council shall have the power to
remove any member of the Zoning Board for cause, after a public hearing upon
giving ten days notice thereof. The Mayor shall name one of the members of the
Zoning Board as Chairperson upon his or her appointment, and in case of
vacancy, shall name the Chairperson.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Zoning Board shall be held at the time and
place within the city as the Zoning Board may determine. Special meetings ay be
held at the call of the Chairperson, or as determined by the Board. The
Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer
oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board
shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating the facts and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or appeal thereof,
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board
shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public
record. Four members of the Zoning Board shall constitute a quorum, and the
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Administrator in any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation or modification in this chapter to the City Council. In the
performance of its duties, the Zoning Board may incur expenditures as shall be
authorized by the City Council. The Zoning Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedures not in conflict with the state or this chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Board shall have a recording secretary at each Zoning
Board meeting, to record the proceedings of the public hearing. The secretary
shall be the City Clerk.
   (C)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrator. It shall also
hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass
under this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may
modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
to the extent and in the manner that the Zoning Board may decide to be fitting
and proper in the premises and, to that end, the Zoning Board shall also have
all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms
of this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board may in the following
instances only make the variations of the strict application of the terms of
this chapter, as are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the
Zoning Board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that a granting
of the variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but
is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship so great as to warrant a
variance:
         (a)   To permit the reconstruction of a non-conforming building (but
excluding residences and farm buildings) which has been destroyed or damaged to
an extent of more than 50% of its assessed value by fire or act of God, or the
public enemy, where the Zoning Board shall find some compelling public
necessity requiring a continuance of the non-conforming use, but in no case
shall a permit be issued if its primary function is for financial gain.
         (b)   To permit the remodeling or expansion of a non-conforming use
where the Board finds public necessity and convenience in the continuance or
expansion of the non-conforming use and that the remodeling or expansion does
not materially affect the other uses in the neighborhood.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Zoning Board the power or authority to alter or change this chapter, the power
and authority being reserved to the City Council.
      (5)   The Zoning Board may impose conditions and restrictions upon the
use of the premises benefitted by a variance, as it may deem necessary.
   (D)   Appeals, how taken.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the county may appeal to the Zoning Board to review any order, requirement,
decision or recommendation made by the Administrator. Any notice of appeal
shall be accompanied by the required filling fee as established by the City
Council.
      (2)   The appeal shall be made within 45 days after the date of written
notice of the decision or order to the City Manager and a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Administrator shall forthwith transmit to
the Zoning Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken and a public hearing scheduled.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the permit, a stay would in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property. In this case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than a restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board, or by a
court of record on application, on notice to the Administrator, and on due
cause shown.
      (4)   The Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.128 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board shall have all powers and exercise all duties as are
provided for in Division 12 and Division 13 of Article 11 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq. and shall exercise
those other powers germane to the powers granted by the act.
   (B)   No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record affecting land
within the corporate limits of the city and in contiguous territory outside and
distant not more than one and one-half miles from the limits of the city, after
the adoption of the official plan, shall be entitled to record or shall be
valid unless the subdivision, thereon shown conforms with the applicable
provisions of the official plan and the applicable requirements of the city
subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance and other ordinances.
(Ord. 1138, passed 3-3-25)
§ 155.129 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variations from the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the
Zoning Board where practical difficulties and unusual hardships in complying
with those provisions are determined to exist, but only after a public hearing
has been duly advertised and held by the Board. The Zoning Board may impose the
restrictions and conditions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as it
considers necessary so that the public health, safety and general welfare may
be secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Applications for variance shall be accompanied by a plot plan as
required for permit applications, and a certified listing, by complete name
address, of all property owners within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (C)   The procedure for applying for a variance from the regulations of this
chapter is as follows:
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the
Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application along with the
required exhibits with the Administrator. Any application for a variance shall
be accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the City Council.
      (3)   The Administrator shall transmit the application to the Chairperson
of the Zoning Board and shall determine with the Chairperson the time and place
of the required public hearing.
      (4)   The Administrator may provide courtesy notices to those owners of
property within 250 feet of the property in question.
      (5)   The Administrator shall have notice of the scheduled public
hearings published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
15 days before the hearing in conformity with the state statutes.
      (6)   The Zoning Board shall hold the public hearing within 45 days of
filing and shall take one of three actions: approval, denial or conditional
approval.
   (D)   Standards for granting variances. The Zoning Board may vary the
regulations of this chapter when supporting evidence in each specific case
indicates that:
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition for a variance are based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and not
applicable generally to other property with the same zoning classification;
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to increase the value or income potential of the parcel of land;
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by the provisions of
this chapter and has not been created by any person presently or formerly
having an interest in the parcel of land;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the vicinity in which the
parcel of land is located;
      (6)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the vicinity; and/or
      (7)   Decisions of the Zoning Board may be appealed to the City Council
for a final decision by any interested party. The appeal must be filed in
writing to the City Clerk within ten days following the Zoning Board decision.
   (E)   Flood variances. In addition, no variation to the special flood hazard
area regulations contained in this chapter shall be granted by the Zoning
Board, or by the City Council if appealed, unless the applicant conclusively
demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the special
flood hazard area;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variation were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   Any and all other local, state and federal permits that may be
required for this type of development activity have been obtained;
      (7)   The Administrator has reviewed the plans and states, in writing,
that the project is in conformance with the "General Provisions" and "Criteria
for Land Management and Use" of the National Flood Insurance Program ( 44
C.F.R. parts 59 and 60, as published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, 5-31-1979); and
      (8)   The applicant shall be notified that the granting of a variance for
construction and/or development in the special flood hazard area will result in
an increase in the flood insurance rates according to the risk as assigned.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.130 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Before a building or premises is devoted to any use classified
hereunder, a special permit must be granted by the City Council following
recommendation by the Planning Commission and a public hearing before the
Zoning Board.
   (B)   The following exhibits shall be required unless waived by the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
application; and
      (2)   Certified listing, by complete name and address, of all owners of
property within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (C)   The procedure for obtaining a special use permit is as follows:
      (1)   In applying for a special use permit, the applicant shall follow
all applicable procedures set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application along with the
required exhibits with the Administrator. Any application for a special use
shall be accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the City
Council.
      (3)   The Administrator shall refer the application to the Zoning Board.
      (5)   The Administrator shall cause notice of a public hearing in
accordance with state statutes and may provide courtesy notice to those owners
of property within 250 feet of the property in question.
      (6)   The Zoning Board, after holding a public hearing in accordance with
state statutes, shall make a recommendation independent of that submitted by
the Planning Commission within 30 days of the concluded public hearing,
forwarding the recommendation directly to the City Council.
      (7)   The City Council may approve, deny or give conditional approval to
the application. In cases of approval or conditional approval, the City Council
shall issue written authorization to the Administrator to issue a zoning permit
in full conformance with this subchapter. This authorization shall remain on
permanent file with the application.
      (8)   The City Council may attach special conditions, including specified
period of time for the permit, to ensure conformance with the intent of all
comprehensive plan elements and to preserve the integrity of the zoning
district in question.
   (D)   A special use permit may be granted by the City Council after
demonstration by evidence that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities
have been or will be provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets or
roads; and
      (6)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Where a special use permit has been issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, the permit may become null and void by action of the City
Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission unless work thereon
commences within one year of the date of granting the special use. A special
use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular use and may be
canceled by the City Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission if
that use ceases for more than 12 consecutive months.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.131 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The City Council may from time to time amend, supplement or
change by ordinance the boundaries of districts, or regulations herein
established.
   (B)   Kinds of amendments.
      (1)   An amendment to this chapter may be one of the following:
         (a)   A change in a district's boundary (re-zoning);
         (b)   A change in a district's regulations; and
         (c)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for amending this chapter shall
be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
      (1)   By application of an owner or owners of property which is proposed
to be re-zoned, or for which zoning district rule and regulation changes are
proposed. Any application for a re-zoning or for a text amendment shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the City Council; and
      (2)   By action of the City Council.
   (D)   Exhibits. Required exhibits for re-zoning or district regulation
changes initiated by property owners:
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
application; and
      (2)   A certified listing, by complete name and address, of all property
owners within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Upon any application for a proposed amendment, supplement or change
being properly filed with the Administrator, the Administrator shall
immediately cause a copy of same to be forwarded to the members of the Zoning
Board.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall forward its report and decision, setting
forth the reasons therefor, to the Mayor within a reasonable time after the
public hearing.
   (F)   Notice of public hearing for amendments.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall cause notice of a public hearing to be duly
published, as prescribed by state statute.
      (2)   Hearings on text amendments shall be held in the city. Hearings on
map amendments shall be held in the city.
      (3)   The published notice of a hearing shall be published in a newspaper
qualified to accept legal notices, in general circulation in the city.
      (4)   In addition, for all map amendments, the Administrator shall mail
courtesy notices to all owners of property within 250 feet of the property in
question.
   (G)   Passage of amendments.
      (1)   Text and map amendments may be passed by the City Council by a
simple majority of the Mayor and City Council; except that, in the following
instances, no amendment shall be approved, except by the favorable vote of
three-fourths of the Mayor and City Council:
         (a)   Written protests against a proposed text amendment are signed by
at least 5% of the land owners of the city; and
         (b)   Written protests against any proposed map amendment, signed by
the owner or
owners of 20% of the land to be rezoned, or signed by the owner or owners of
land immediately touching, or immediately across a street, alley or public
right-of-way from at least 20% of the perimeter of the land to be re-zoned.
      (2)   In all instances involving protest of a proposed amendment, the
protests shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City Clerk not less
than five days before final action on the proposed amendment is scheduled to be
taken. Additionally, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the
protesters on the application for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of the applicant
and attorney not less than five days before final action is scheduled to be
taken.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.132 FEES.
   All fees are subject to revision by action of the City Council.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of not
more than $200, or imprisonment of not more than six months for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1134, passed 11-4-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREET NAME CHANGES AND DEDICATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   AGREEMENTS; CONTRACTS
      
V.   APPROPRIATIONS; TAXES
      
VI.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Union Gas and Electric Company the right and
240      8-7-50      franchise for supplying gas and light, heat and power to
                     the city.
                     Granting to Illinois Central Telephone Company for
243      3-19-51     supplying telephone service and communication by telephone
                     or other electric device.
478      12-3-79     Grating a franchise to Central Cable System for a cable
                     television system in the city.
                     Granting a franchise to Cable TV Fund 14-A, Ltd., its
642      11-21-94    successors and assigns, to operate and maintain a
                     community antenna cable television system in the city.
                     Authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company (d/b/a Nicor Gas
736      8-21-00     Company) to construct, operate and maintain a gas
                     distributing system in and through the city.
882      2-7-11      Extending the expiration date of the cable television
                     franchise agreement with Mediacom Illinois LLC.
898      10-17-11    Extending the expiration date of the cable television
                     franchise agreement with Mediacom Illinois LLC.
942      9-2-14      Addressing the payment of cable television franchise fees
                     by Mediacom Illinois LLC.
951      6-15-15     Addressing the payment of cable television franchise fees
                     by Mediacom Illinois LLC.
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET NAME CHANGES AND DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
577      7-15-91     State Route 54, from the east city limits to the west city
                     limits line is designated as Clinton Avenue.
—      —         All of U.S. 150 from one north to the south or east city
                     limit lines is designated as Grove Street.
                     The street referred to as Olive which is located one block
—      —         east and one block west of Main Street is designated as
                     Olive Avenue.
—      —         Township Road 1400 N, which runs west from John Street to
                     the city limits is designated as Depot Road.
                     The cul-de-sac north of Richardson Street, immediately
—      —         east of Woodlawn Country Club in Glenoak Subdivisions is
                     designated Oak Lane.
722      8-16-99     Dedicating and accepting Stensel Drive as a street of the
                     city.
                     The first alley west of Main Street which runs north and
730      5-1-00      south from the 100 Block of West Clinton Avenue to the 100
                     Block of West Water Street is designated as Service Way.
                     Ponderosa Lane, a north-south street running northerly
781      8-4-03      from Clinton Avenue between the 900 Block and the 1000
                     Block.
                     Accepting the dedication for public sewer purposes of a
797      5-3-04      private sewer in the 600 and 700 Blocks of West Green
                     Street.
1088     9-6-22      Amending Ordinance 577 renaming Olive Avenue to Olive
                     Street.
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Vacating two and one-half feet on the east side of the dedicated public
606  8-17-  alley lying immediately west of Lot 1 and two feet off the full south side
     92     of Lot 2 in Block 30 in Weedman and McCord’s Addition to the town, now the
            City of Farmer City.
749  —    Vacating Lots 1, 2, 7 and 8 in Block 8 of Weedman and McCord’s Addition.
820  5-15-  Vacating a portion of William Street, north of U.S. Highway 150, between
     06     Lots 3 and 4 in Block 7 of Weedman and McCord’s Addition.
873  7-7-10 Vacating the alley between Lots 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7 in block 25 of Weedman and
            McCord’s Addition.
890  6-19-  Vacating the alley between Lots 1 and 2 in the block between 288 and 429 of
     11     the Woodlawn Addition.
895  9-19-  Vacating that part of an alley between blocks 288 and 429 of Woodlawn
     11     Addition to the City of Farmer City; approximately 80 feet east.
929  12-2-  Vacating West Street between Market Street and Green Street and between
     13     Green Street and Water Street.
938  8-4-14 Vacating the 200 block of North State Street.
1094 11-7-  Vacating Lot 10, Block 14 Irregular, Huddleston Second Addition, commonly
     22     known as 515 East High Street.
     3-18-  Vacating a certain north-south right-of-way on the north side of West Van
1115 24     Buren Street, just west of the intersection with North Main Street in the
            city.
           
 
TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS; CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
612      3-15-93     Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the city
                     and Donald and Pat Bowman.
                     Approving the admission of the village of Allendale, the
                     city of Fairfield and the city of McLeansboro as new
700      9-21-98     members of the Illinois Municipal Electric Agency and to
                     authorize execution of a supplement to the agency
                     agreement establishing the Illinois Municipal Electric
                     Agency.
                     Authorizing and approving a redevelopment agreement by and
716      4-8-99      between the city and Farmer City Farm Corporation in
                     connection with TIF 2, and related matters.
729B     4-17-00     Approving a redevelopment agreement between the city and
                     Plaza Ford, Mercury, Inc.
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of an addendum to
777      2-3-03      the amended power sales contract with the Illinois
                     Municipal Electric Agency.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
799      7-6-04      city and Maxwell Counters, Inc. in connection with
                     Redevelopment Project Area Number One.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
804      9-20-04     city and MKT Custom Homes, Inc., in connection with
                     Redevelopment Project Area Number One.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
815      10-17-05    city and Next Generation, Inc., in connection with
                     Redevelopment Project Area Number One.
                     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum
850      11-17-08    contribution agreement for the period beginning 12/3/2008
                     and ending 12/31/2009.
                     Approving the admission of the village of Riverton as a
                     new member of the Illinois Municipal Electric Agency and
853      3-2-09      to authorize execution of a supplement to the agency
                     agreement establishing the Illinois Municipal Electric
                     Agency.
                     Supplementing the agency agreement between and among the
- -      3-2-09      municipalities of the State of Illinois creating the
                     Illinois Municipal Electric Agency.
                     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum
863      10-19-09    contribution agreement for the period beginning 12/3/2009
                     and ending 12/31/2010.
                     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum
880      12-6-10     contribution agreement for the period beginning 12/31/2010
                     and ending 12/31/2011.
                     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum
899      11-7-11     contribution agreement for the period beginning 12/31/2011
                     and ending 12/31/2012.
                     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum
907      11-5-12     contribution agreement for the period beginning 12/31/2012
                     and ending 12/31/2013.
915      3-4-13      Authorizing a lease- purchase agreement with Heartland
                     Bank for certain equipment for corporate purposes.
916      4-1-13      Amending ordinance 915 authorizing a promissory note to
                     Heartland Bank for equipment for corporate purposes.
920      5-20-13     Authorizing a promissory note to Heartland Bank to finance
                     the acquisition of certain equipment.
944      11-17-14    Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
956      11-5-15     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
970      11-7-16     Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
991      11-6-17     Authorizing the execution of a Waste Collection Agreement.
992      11-20-17    Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
997A     2-5-18      Authorizing the execution of a Waste Collection Agreement.
                     Authorizing an amendment to contract with Area Disposal to
1007     5-21-18     provide residential refuse, recycling, yard waste and bulk
                     waste pick up services.
1017     11-19-18    Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
                     Approving and authorizing the execution of an
1022     12-10-18    intergovernmental agreement for payment of certain impact
                     fees and costs between the City of Farmer City and Blue
                     Ridge Community Unit School District No. 18.
                     Authorizing the City Council to amend an agreement with
1034     7-1-19      Area Disposal for residential refuse and recycling
                     services.
1039     11-4-19     Authorizing the execution of the RMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
1044     12-9-19     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
                     City of Farmer City and Maxwell Counters, Inc.
1045     2-3-20      Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
                     City of Farmer City and Sarah Reynolds.
1052     8-3-20      Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
                     City of Farmer City and Richard Koch.
1055     11-2-20     Authorizing the execution of the RMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
21-1072  9-7-21      city and Stuart Jenkins in connection with the
                     Redevelopment Project Area.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
21-1073  8-16-21     city and Pearl Trucking, LLC in connection with the
                     Redevelopment Project Area.
1074     10-18-21    Authorizing the execution of the RMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
1095     11-7-22     Authorizing the execution of the RMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
                     Adopting and approving an amended redevelopment plan and
1097     12-5-22     related redevelopment projects for the existing
                     Redevelopment Project Area Two.
1103     11-6-23     Authorizing the execution of the RMA Minimum/Maximum
                     Contribution Agreement.
                     Approving a redevelopment agreement by and between the
1111     1-2-24      city and Arthur Williams in connection with the
                     Redevelopment Project Area.
                     Authorizing the execution of a new power sales contract
1122     6-3-24      and a new capacity purchase agreement with the Illinois
                     Municipal Electric Agency.
                    
 
TABLE V: APPROPRIATIONS; TAXES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
698   7-31-  Appropriating for all corporate purposes for the city for the fiscal year
      98     beginning May 1, 1998 and ending April 30, 1999.
702   12-7-  Levying taxes for all corporate purposes for the city for the fiscal year
      98     beginning may 1, 1999 and ending April 30, 2000.
703   12-7-  Abating property taxes resulting from a levy general obligation waterworks bonds
      98     (alternate revenue source), series 1997.
704   12-7-  Abating property taxes resulting from a levy for general obligation electric
      98     bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1991.
715   4-8-99 Adopting tax increment financing for the city Southwest Redevelopment Project
             Area (TIF 2).
718   7-19-  Appropriating for all corporate purposes for the city for the fiscal year
      99     beginning May 1, 1999 and ending April 30, 2000.
723   -      Levying taxes for all corporate purposes for the city for the fiscal year
             beginning May 1, 2000 and ending April 30, 2001.
724   11-1-  Abating property taxes resulting from a levy for General Obligation Electric
      99     Bonds (Alternate Revenue Source, series 1991).
725   11-1-  Abating property taxes resulting from a levy for General Obligation Waterworks
      99     bonds (Alternate Revenue Source), series 1997.
790   12-1-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the city for the FY
      03     commencing on May 1, 2004 and ending on April 30, 2005.
      12-1-  Abating a portion of the levy and collection of real estate taxes for all
791   03     corporate purposes for the city for the FY commencing on May 1, 2004 and ending
             on April 30, 2005.
851   12-8-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the fiscal year
      08     commencing on May 1, 2008 and ending on April 30, 2009.
856   4-20-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2009- 2010.
      09
865   11-23- Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      09     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2009 and ending on April 30, 2010.
872   4-19-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2010- 2011.
      10
881   1-3-11 Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
             the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2010 and ending on April 30, 2011.
884A  4-18-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2011- 2012.
      11
900   11-21- Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      11     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2011 and ending on April 30, 2012.
904   7-16-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2012-2013.
      12
909   12-3-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      12     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2012 and ending on April 30, 2013.
922   7-15-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2013- 2014.
      13
932   12-2-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      13     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2013 and ending on April 30, 2014.
944A  12-15- Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      14     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2014 and ending on April 30, 2015.
957   12-21- Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      15     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2015 and ending on April 30, 2016.
972   12-5-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      16     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2016 and ending on April 30, 2017.
982   7-24-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2017- 2018.
      17
999   1-15-  Supplemental appropriation for the fiscal year 2017- 2018.
      18
1005  5-7-18 Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2018-2019.
1021  12-3-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      18     the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2018 and ending on April 30, 2019.
1032  5-20-  Making annual appropriations for the fiscal year 2019-2020.
      19
1043  12-9-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      19     the fiscal year commencing May 1, 2019 and ending April 30, 2020.
1049  6-1-20 Making annual appropriations for fiscal year 2020-2021.
1058  12-21- Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes based on appropriations for
      20     the fiscal year beginning May 1, 2020 and ending April 30, 2020.
1068  7-6-21 Making annual appropriations for the city for fiscal year 2021-2022.
      12-6-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the city based on
1078  21     appropriations for the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2021 and ending on April
             30, 2022.
1085  6-6-22 Making annual appropriations for the city for fiscal year 2022-2023.
             Authorizing the establishment of tax increment financing “interested parties”
1090  9-6-22 registries and adopting registration rules for such registries for Southwest
             Redevelopment Project Area TIF #2.
      12-5-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the city based on
1098  22     appropriations for the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2022 and ending on April
             30, 2023.
1102  6-5-23 Making annual appropriations for the city for fiscal year 2023-2024.
2023- 12-4-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the city based on
1108  23     appropriations for the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2023 and ending on April
             30, 2024.
1121  6-3-24 Making annual appropriations for the city for fiscal year 2024-2025.
      12-2-  Levying real estate taxes for all corporate purposes for the city, based on
1136  24     appropriations for the fiscal year commencing on May 1, 2024 and ending on April
             30, 2025.
            
 
TABLE VI: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
710      4-8-99      Approving an annexation agreement (Farmer City Farm
                     Corporation Subdivision).
711      4-8-99      Annexing certain territory to the city.
712      4-8-99      Approving a “minor” plat (Farm City West Development).
714      4-8-99      Designating the Southwest Redevelopment Project Area (TIF
                     2).
933      1-13-14     Annexing certain territory to the city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Code Section
ILCS                                       Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.             30.161,
                                           32.042
Ch. 5, Act 425                             30.170 -
                                           30.173
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.             30.173
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 35                      30.171
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 45(a)(6)                30.172
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83                      30.170
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.         30.170 -
                                           30.173
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.           135.02
Ch. 20, Act 1605, § 7.12                  135.02
Ch. 20, Act 2910 §§ 1 et seq.            137.02
Ch. 30, Act 105, §§ 6z-20.2              34.95
Ch. 30, Act 525                            33.02
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 2-22                   34.95
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3                      34.95
Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.            96.02
Ch. 35, Act 635, §§ 1 et seq.            95.02
Ch. 50, Act 510                            33.02
Ch. 50, Act 525                            33.02
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.            31.15
Ch. 65, Act 3.1                            30.063
                                           30.030,
                                           30.063,
Ch. 65, Act 5                              30.071,
                                           30.072,
                                           33.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq.          38.04,
                                           155.128
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                    151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.5                  91.77
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50                30.037
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-30                30.070
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-56                30.072
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-1-1 et seq.          30.063
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-2-12                   30.031
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-2-12(j)                30.070
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-2-19                   30.034
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-6                    30.031
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14                   96.01,
                                           96.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                   34.27,
                                           34.95
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.3                 34.95
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.4                 34.95
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24                  34.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12                 151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-15                 97.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                  151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                  151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                  151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1                  71.001,
                                           75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3                  91.48
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1                91.48
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq.      34.65
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2              34.65
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(a)             34.74
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(c)             34.74
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)             34.74
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)(9)          34.74
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-6(e)             34.74
Ch. 210, Act 120                           155.095
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.            95.16
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4                      95.05
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.            135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.            135.02
Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.            135.02
Ch. 230, Act 40                            135.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2                     30.070
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-2                     110.19
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16                    91.77
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20                    91.77
Ch. 330, Act 61, §§ 1-1 et seq.          32.092
Ch. 410, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.           155.081
Ch. 415, Act 5                             91.18,
                                           151.12
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215                   71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.220                   71.103
                                           71.103,
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360                   136.01,
                                           136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                     71.103
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4                     136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5                     136.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6                     136.04
                                           136.02,
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8                     136.03,
                                           136.04,
                                           136.07
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                     136.05
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10                    136.06
Ch. 425, Act 105, § 3(a)                  136.01
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 1 et seq.            Ch. 137
Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.             90.01
Ch. 525, Act 30, § 3.11                   131.02
Ch. 525, Act 30, § 3.14                   131.02
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 11-101 et seq.        95.02
Ch. 625                                    73.33,
                                           79.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1                       91.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-101.8                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.6                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9                 73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-133.1                 71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001               70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201                   70.01,
                                           73.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205                   70.01,
                                           70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01                70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01                70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8                 70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)                70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609                   72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616                   72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203                   76.05,
                                           76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(a) and (e)        91.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213(b)                76.05,
                                           76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-214(a)(2)             91.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101                   79.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-204                   76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303                   79.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, Art. X                     74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203                  70.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205                  70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206                  70.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301                  70.01,
                                           72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302                  70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305                  70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306(a) - (d)         70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307                  70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308                  70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309                  70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310                  70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311                  70.36
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312                  70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313                  70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401(a) - (b-1), (e)  76.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402                  76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403                  76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404                  76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409                  76.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-415                  76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501                  71.066,
                                           79.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1                76.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)               76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506                  76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601(a) - (d)         71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604                  71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(a) - (e)         71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(e-5)             71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)               71.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611                  71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701                  71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702                  71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703                  71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704                  71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705                  71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706                  71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707(a) - (c)         71.047
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708                  71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709                  71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710                  71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711                  71.106
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801                  71.020
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802                  71.021
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803                  71.022
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804                  71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805                  71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806                  71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-901 et seq.        73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901                  71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902                  71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903                  71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904                  71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905                  71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906                  71.065
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907                  71.048,
                                           71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907.5                71.040,
                                           71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-908                  71.040,
                                           71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001                 74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002                 74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003                 74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1               74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004                 74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1               74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005                 74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006                 74.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007                 74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008                 74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009                 74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010                 74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011                 74.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201                 71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202                 71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204                 70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205                 71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301                 72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1               72.12, Ch. 78, Sch. III
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2               72.12, Ch. 78, Sch. III
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3               72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302                 70.99,
                                           72.40
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303                 72.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304                 72.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305                 72.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401                 72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402                 71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403                 73.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1               73.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404                 73.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405                 73.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406                 71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407                 71.098
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410                 71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411                 71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412                 71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1               71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413                 71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414                 71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416                 71.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418                 71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420                 71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425                 71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1               73.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502                 73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503                 73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504                 73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505                 73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1               73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506                 73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507                 73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1               73.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-7004                 74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.        75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101                  75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-201                  73.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208                  71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215                  71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b)12             72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.1                71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.2                71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709                  73.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-801                  71.081,
                                           74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803                  71.045,
                                           71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805                  71.045,
                                           71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101                  75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105                  75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106                  75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109                  75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114                  75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-104                  70.99
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.          92.15
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1—12-1           92.17
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2                     130.001
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3                     130.001
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4                     130.001
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12                    130.001
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4                     130.002
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5                     130.003
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6                     130.004
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7                     130.005
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 8-1 et seq.           91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4                     130.006
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 9-1 et seq.           91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 10-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-14 et seq.         91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-20 et seq.         91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-21 et seq.         91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20                   134.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21                   134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30                   134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2                   135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 20-2 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3                    131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.          91.77
                                           79.01,
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1                    137.01,
                                           137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(2)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(3)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(4)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(6)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(9)              137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(10)             137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.6                  137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2                    137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1                  137.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-5                    137.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6                    137.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 25-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 26-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1                    132.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.          91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1                    135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2                    135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3                    135.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a), (b)            135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1 et seq.            91.77
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1                    133.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8                    133.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9                    133.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 33A-2                   130.006
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3                     136.09,
                                           136.10
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 11 et seq.          79.01
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.         91.77
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 201 et seq.         136.10
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 1201                  79.01
Ch. 720, Act 600, § 2                     79.01
Ch. 725, Act 210, § 7.06                  137.02
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-8-1(a)(1)(c)(iii)- (v)130.006
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.         79.11
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-202                   131.02
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5               131.02
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1505.8(l)            131.02
Ch. 740, Act 174, §§ 1 et seq.           32.033
Ch. 765                                    152.23,
                                           152.52
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                     151.14
Ch. 775, Act 5, §§ 1-103 et seq.         32.027
Ch. 820, Act 40, §§ 0.01 et seq.         32.018
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
4            3-4-1890    10.19
240          8-7-50      T.S.O. I
243          3-19-51     T.S.O. I
                         Ch. 77, Schs.
320          10-5-59     I,
                         II,
                         IV
                         150.01,
                         150.02,
                         150.15 -
363          6-21-65     150.24,
                         150.35 -
                         150.38,
                         150.99
                         53.01 -
382          2-19-68     53.20,
                         53.99
409          6-20-72     Ch. 78, Sch. II
419          7-16-73     92.01
469          11-6-78     35.01 -
                         35.12
478          12-3-79     T.S.O. I
                         92.15 -
481          2-18-80     92.18,
                         92.99
487          1-5-81      132.03
488          1-5-81      132.02
493          4-20-81     132.03
496          1-4-82      34.01 -
                         34.03
497          1-4-82      34.15,
                         34.16
                         90.01 -
504          1-3-83      90.09,
                         90.99
                         52.01 -
532          4-6-87      52.04,
                         52.06
                         91.01 -
                         91.03,
                         91.15 -
                         91.17,
                         91.19,
533          4-20-87     91.30 -
                         91.32,
                         91.45,
                         91.47,
                         91.60 -
                         91.63,
                         91.99
                         Ch. 77, Schs.
                         I,
                         III,
534          4-20-87     V, Ch. 78, Schs.
                         I,
                         II,
                         III
544          9-6-88      31.01 -
                         31.03
545          11-7-88     Ch. 78, Sch. I
                         50.01,
                         50.15 -
                         50.22,
553          5-1-89      50.35,
                         50.36,
                         50.50 -
                         50.52,
                         50.99
                         152.01 -
                         152.07,
                         152.20 -
                         152.23,
567          10-15-90    152.35 -
                         152.41,
                         152.50 -
                         152.53,
                         152.98,
                         152.99
                         30.001,
                         30.002,
                         30.015,
                         30.016,
                         30.033,
                         30.034,
                         30.037,
                         30.038,
                         30.050 -
                         30.054,
568a         3-18-91     30.056 -
                         30.059,
                         30.070,
                         30.085 -
                         30.092,
                         30.105,
                         30.106,
                         30.120 -
                         30.123,
                         30.135 -
                         30.148
569          12-17-90    31.04
                         33.01 -
573          6-17-91     33.05,
                         33.12
575          7-29-91     153.01,
                         153.99
576          7-15-91     92.02
577          7-15-91     T.S.O. II
582          10-21-91    Ch. 77, Sch. III
583          9-3-91      54.01,
                         54.02
594          1-20-92     30.160 -
                         30.164
602          7-6-92      92.01
606          8-17-92     T.S.O. IV
607          10-5-92     Adopting Ordinance
608          10-5-92     52.02
610          11-16-92    Ch. 77, Sch. VI
612          3-15-93     T.S.O. V
613          5-17-93     T.S.O. III
618          5-17-93     110.19
629          11-1-93     33.12
            11-15-93    Adopting Ordinance
            11-15-93    30.122,
                         30.145
                         52.01,
                         52.03 -
635A         1-17-94     52.15,
                         52.17,
                         52.18
642          11-21-94    T.S.O. I
646          5-1-95      30.143
647          5-1-95      Ch. 77, Sch. III
                         Ch. 77, Sch.
648          6-5-95      III,
                         VII
                         51.170 -
651          8-21-95     51.182,
                         51.999
                         51.001 -
652          8-21-95     51.161,
                         51.999
653          9-5-95      91.45,
                         91.46
                         52.30 -
654          9-5-95      52.34,
                         52.37
655          10-2-95     Ch. 77, Sch. III
658          12-18-95    Ch. 110
667          7-1-96      Ch. 77, Sch. III
                         34.25 -
668          10-7-96     34.32,
                         34.99
669          10-7-96     51.171
673          12-2-96     34.25
677          3-3-97      51.033
678          4-7-97      51.033,
                         51.065
679          4-7-97      72.13
691          5-4-98      51.123
695          6-1-98      Ch. 77, Sch. III
696          7-6-98      90.10
698          7-31-98     T.S.O. V
699          8-3-98      Ch. 77, Sch. I
700          9-21-98     T.S.O. IV
702          12-7-98     T.S.O. V
703          12-7-98     T.S.O. V
704          12-7-98     T.S.O. V
705          12-7-98     Ch. 93
707          1-18-99     52.09
708          2-15-99     31.25,
                         31.35
710          4-8-99      T.S.O. VI
711          4-8-99      T.S.O. VI
712          4-8-99      T.S.O. VI
714          4-8-99      T.S.O. VI
715          4-8-99      T.S.O. V
716          4-8-99      T.S.O. IV
718          7-19-99     T.S.O. V
719          8-2-99      Ch. 77, Sch. III
720          8-16-99     Ch. 94
722          8-16-99     T.S.O. II
723          -           T.S.O. V
724          11-1-99     T.S.O. V
725          11-1-99     T.S.O. V
729B         4-17-00     T.S.O. IV
730          5-1-00      T.S.O. II
733          6-15-00     Ch. 78, Sch. I
734          6-19-00     52.38
736          8-21-00     T.S.O. I
738          6-5-00      90.11 -
                         90.14
741          8-7-00      152.42
744          10-2-00     31.02,
                         31.25
745          10-2-00     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
749                     T.S.O. III
750          12-4-00     34.40 -
                         34.56
754          1-8-01      30.051
                         30.030,
                         30.031,
756          4-16-01     30.037,
                         30.060 -
                         30.063,
                         30.070
                         95.01 -
761          10-15-01    95.22,
                         95.99
766          12-17-01    34.65 -
                         34.76
771          8-5-02      96.01 -
                         96.16
774          10-21-02    110.16,
                         110.25
777          2-3-03      T.S.O. IV
778          5-5-03      110.16,
                         110.25
780          7-21-03     51.172
781          8-4-03      T.S.O. II
785          9-15-03     110.25
786          10-6-03     30.170 -
                         30.173
788          10-20-03    110.25
790          12-1-03     T.S.O. V
791          12-1-03     T.S.O. V
793          1-5-04      110.16,
                         110.40
794          4-5-04      Ch. 77, Sch. I
795          4-5-04      132.02
797          5-3-04      T.S.O. II
799          7-6-04      T.S.O. IV
801          8-2-04      Ch. 77, Sch. III
804          9-20-04     T.S.O. IV
                         30.034,
806          11-1-04     30.071 -
                         30.074
811          1-24-05     92.30 -
                         92.36
815          10-17-05    T.S.O. IV
819          5-1-06      153.01
820          5-15-06     T.S.O. III
822          6-19-06     Ch. 77, Sch. III
                         33.01 -
827          10-23-06    33.05,
                         33.10 -
                         33.13
                         151.01 -
                         151.04,
                         151.11 -
840          8-6-07      151.16,
                         151.21 -
                         151.23,
                         151.99
846          3-10-08     51.171,
                         51.172
                         Ch. 77, Sch.
848          9-8-08      III,
                         VII
850          11-17-08    T.S.O. IV
851          12-8-08     T.S.O. V
- -          3-2-09      T.S.O. IV
853          3-2-09      T.S.O. IV
                         52.31 -
854          4-6-09      52.33,
                         52.35
855          4-20-09     52.02
856          4-20-09     T.S.O. V
857          4-20-09     90.11
858          5-4-09      70.99
860          9-8-09      79.01 -
                         79.13
861          10-5-09     94.10
863          10-19-09    T.S.O. IV
864          11-2-09     Ch. 77, Sch. III
865          11-23-09    T.S.O. V
869          1-4-10      70.43,
                         70.99
872          4-19-10     T.S.O. V
873          6-7-10      T.S.O. III
880          12-6-10     T.S.O. IV
881          1-3-11      T.S.O. V
882          2-7-11      T.S.O. I
883          2-21-11     Ch. 78, Sch. I
884          4-18-01     91.45
884A         4-18-11     T.S.O. V
885          7-5-11      Ch. 77, Sch. III
                         52.31 -
889          8-18-11     52.33,
                         52.35
890          6-19-11     T.S.O. III
892          9-19-11     Ch. 77, Sch. III
894          10-3-11     52.09
895          9-19-11     T.S.O. III
897          10-17-11    51.135,
                         51.999
898          10-17-11    T.S.O. I
899          11-7-11     T.S.O. IV
900          11-21-11    T.S.O. V
902          5-7-12      135.02
903          - -         31.15
904          7-16-12     T.S.O. V
                         52.31 -
906          9-18-12     52.33,
                         52.35,
                         52.38
907          11-5-12     T.S.O. IV
908          11-5-12     111.03
909          12-3-12     T.S.O. V
910          12-3-12     52.32
914          2-4-13      52.09
915          3-4-13      T.S.O. IV
916          4-1-13      T.S.O. IV
917          4-15-13     110.40
920          5-20-13     T.S.O. IV
922          7-15-13     T.S.O. V
924          8-19-13     72.13
925          10-7-13     73.30 -
                         73.36
927          11-18-13    52.09
929          12-2-13     T.S.O. III
931          12-2-13     30.051
932          12-2-13     T.S.O. V
933          1-13-14     T.S.O. VI
937          7-7-14      91.15
938          8-4-14      T.S.O. III
940          8-4-14      73.32,
                         73.34
941-A        9-2-14      134.04
942          9-2-14      T.S.O. I
943          10-6-14     30.136
944          11-17-14    T.S.O. IV
944A         12-15-14    T.S.O. V
945          2-2-15      110.16
947          4-6-15      90.05,
                         90.99
948          4-20-15     52.02
949          5-4-15      132.04
950          5-4-15      90.11
951          6-15-15     T.S.O. I
952          6-15-15     110.16
953          8-17-15     110.16
954          8-17-15     110.25
956          11-5-15     T.S.O. IV
957          12-21-15    T.S.O. V
957A         12-7-15     110.25
966          9-19-16     132.04
970          11-7-16     T.S.O. IV
971          12-17-16    90.99
972          12-5-16     T.S.O. V
973          1-23-17     30.161
974          1-23-17     33.03
975          2-6-17      110.25
977A         4-17-17     96.05
978          4-17-17     91.18
980          5-1-17      110.16
981          6-5-17      32.156
982          7-24-17     T.S.O. V
984          9-18-15     130.098,
                         130.100
986          9-18-17     130.100
988          10-16-17    Ch. 78, Sch. III
989          10-16-17    52.091
991          11-6-17     T.S.O. IV
992          11-20-17    T.S.O. IV
993          12-5-17     31.04
996          1-2-18      Ch. 78, Sch. II
                         53.01 -
997          1-15-18     53.20,
                         53.99
997A         2-5-18      T.S.O. IV
999          1-15-18     T.S.O. V
1000         1-15-18     37.01 -
                         37.06
                         33.01 -
1001         1-15-18     33.05,
                         33.10 -
                         33.13
1002         3-19-18     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
1003         3-19-18     73.32,
                         73.34
1005         5-7-18      T.S.O. V
1007         5-21-18     T.S.O. IV
1008         6-4-18      52.39
1008A        8-6-18      53.10
1009         8-6-18      136.08
1010         8-6-18      132.05
1012         9-17-18     96.05
1013         9-17-18     34.65 -
                         34.76
1014         10-15-18    31.04
1016         10-15-18    Ch. 77, Sch. II
1017         11-19-18    T.S.O. IV
1021         12-3-18     T.S.O. V
1022         12-10-18    T.S.O. IV
Res. 2018-25 12-10-18    30.135
1026         3-18-19     32.125 -
                         32.128
2019-1029    4-1-19      79.13
1032         5-20-19     T.S.O. V
1034         7-1-19      T.S.O. IV
1035         8-5-19      Ch. 78, Sch. II
1036         8-5-19      Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1038         9-3-19      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1039         11-4-19     T.S.O. IV
1041         11-18-19    34.80,
                         34.81
1043         12-9-19     T.S.O. V
1044         12-9-19     T.S.O. IV
1045         2-3-20      T.S.O. IV
1046         3-2-20      110.16
1049         6-1-20      T.S.O. V
1052         8-3-20      T.S.O. IV
1053         8-3-20      110.16
2020-1054    10-5-20     132.06
1055         11-2-20     T.S.O. IV
1056         12-7-20     154.01
                         51.174,
1057         12-7-20     52.31 -
                         52.33,
                         52.37
1058         12-21-20    T.S.O. V
1059         2-2-21      52.39
                         32.001,
                         32.002,
                         32.015 -
                         32.043,
                         32.060 -
1061         4-5-21      32.073,
                         32.090 -
                         32.099,
                         32.110 -
                         32.113,
                         32.125 -
                         32.128
1063         5-3-21      132.01
1064         5-3-21      133.04
1066         5-3-21      91.31
1068         7-6-21      T.S.O. V
21-1072      9-7-21      T.S.O. IV
21-1073      8-16-21     T.S.O. IV
1074         10-18-21    T.S.O. IV
1076         11-15-21    Ch. 78, Sch. III
1077         11-15-21    97.01 -
                         97.11
1078         12-6-21     T.S.O. V
1079         2-7-22      51.171
1081         3-7-22      32.125 -
                         32.128
1085         6-6-22      T.S.O. V
1086         6-6-22      97.04
1087         9-6-22      112.01 -
                         112.22
1088         9-6-22      T.S.O. II
1089         9-6-22      51.091
1090         9-6-22      T.S.O. V
1092         10-3-22     51.125
                         97.01,
1093         10-3-22     97.05,
                         97.10
1094         11-7-22     T.S.O. III
1095         11-7-22     T.S.O. IV
1097         12-5-22     T.S.O. IV
1098         12-5-22     T.S.O. V
                         32.027,
                         32.042,
1099         2-6-23      32.066,
                         32.073,
                         32.090,
                         32.093
1102         6-5-23      T.S.O. V
1103         11-6-23     T.S.O. IV
1104         11-6-23     136.08 -
                         136.11
1106         11-6-23     110.17
2023-1108    12-4-23     T.S.O. V
1109         12-18-23    32.065,
                         32.090
1111         1-2-24      T.S.O. IV
1113         3-18-24     51.057
1114         3-18-24     51.123
1115         3-18-24     T.S.O. III
1116         4-1-24      38.01 -
                         38.06
2024-1117    4-15-24     53.21
1121         6-3-24      T.S.O. V
1122         6-3-24      T.S.O. IV
1123         7-2-24      51.171
                         52.07,
                         52.090,
1125         8-5-24      52.31 -
                         52.33,
                         52.37,
                         52.39
1127         8-5-24      110.25
1128         9-3-24      30.149
1129         10-7-24     32.074
                         91.75 -
1130         11-4-24     91.80,
                         91.99
1131         10-7-24     34.90
1132         11-4-24     34.95
                         155.001 -
                         155.011,
                         155.025 -
                         155.028,
                         155.040 -
                         155.053,
                         155.065,
1134         11-4-24     155.080 -
                         155.098,
                         155.110 -
                         155.113,
                         155.125 -
                         155.127,
                         155.129 -
                         155.132,
                         155.999
                         98.01 -
1135         3-3-25      98.05,
                         98.99
1136         12-2-24     T.S.O. V
1136A        2-3-25      155.053,
                         155.065
1137         2-3-25      Ch. 77, Sch. VIII
1138         3-3-25      155.128
                        
 
 
