VILLAGE OF FORRESTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through 2024-01 passed 4-15-2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   ALTERNATIVE SETTLEMENT FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Printing and distribution
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Liability of officers
Definitions
   
10.15   Intent
   
10.16   Construction of words
   
10.17   Definitions
Savings Clause
   
10.30   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.31   Public utility ordinances
 
   
10.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This village code, the same being herein designated as the “Forreston
Village Code” shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage and
publication in loose leaf form as is provided by statute.
   (B)   This code shall be known as the official village code of the Village
of Forreston. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate title
heading, its chapter heading, if any, and to the penalty clause relating
thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this
ordinance by title in any legal document or ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Publication and distribution. This village code shall be printed and
published in loose leaf form and all of the printed copies of this village code
belonging to the village shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. He or she
shall deliver one copy thereof to the Village President and one copy to each
member of the Village Board, and copies to such other persons as the Village
Board may direct.
   (B)   Presentation of copies. The Village Board shall have the power to
extend to or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by presenting them
with a copy of this village code, bound at the expense of the village, as to
them shall seem suitable.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Incorporation. Any additions or amendments to the village code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the Village Board to make
the same a part of this code shall be deemed to be incorporated in this code so
that a reference to the Village Code of the Village of Forreston shall be
understood to include them.
   (B)   Penalties. In case of amendment of any section of this code containing
the provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty
so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so
amended or the amending section, whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance
or not, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   (C)   Recording amendments.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep at least one copy
of the village code which he or she shall mark in the following manner;
whenever an ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the village code is
passed and approved he or she shall note on the margin of the section or
sections amended that such amendment has been made, with a reference to the
place in the amendment book, hereinafter described where the amendment may be
found; and in the case of an addition he or she shall mark in the appropriate
place a notation that such addition has been made, with a similar reference to
the aforementioned amendment book.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every
amendment or addition passed to the village code, with a reference on each copy
of such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where
the original ordinance may be found.
      (3)   The above mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record
of ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provisions of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the governing body to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee
is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-2-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 10.15 INTENT.
   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this
code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the Village
Board may be fully carried out.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.16 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not be used. When any subject matter, party or person is referred to
in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine
gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and
bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. The words “person, firm or
corporation” shall be deemed to include any association or organization of any
kind. Words in the present shall include the future. The words “this ordinance”
whenever used in this code shall be held and taken to mean the entire
ordinance, include each and every section thereof. Provided that these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains
any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter
or content of such section may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATE SEAL. The corporation seal of the village shall be as follows: a
circular disc with the words, “Village of Forreston, Ogle Co., Ill.” on the
periphery thereof and “Seal” in the center.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each
year and end on April 30 of the year following.
   OFFICERS and EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the Village of Forreston” and shall be taken to mean the
officer or employee of this village having the title mentioned or performing
the duties indicated.
   VILLAGE. Whenever used in this code shall be held and taken to mean the
Village of Forreston.
   WHOLESALER and RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, they shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale, as distinguished
from a retailer who sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
SAVINGS CLAUSE
§ 10.30 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the village passed by the Village Board prior to
the passage of this village code are hereby repealed, except such as are
expressly excepted from repeal herein, and except such as are referred to
herein as being still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved
from repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following section),
from which are excluded the following ordinances which are not here repealed:
tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the village; all special
ordinances; and all ordinances relating to the water and wastewater systems of
village, including the establishment of charges and billing procedures
therefore.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.31 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinances relating to railroads or railroad crossing with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the passage of this village
code or by virtue of §
10.30, excepting as this village code may contain provisions for such matters,
in which case this village code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in the respect of such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Limits of fine. Unless otherwise provided in this code, any person
who shall violate any section of this code shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $750 for each such violation.
      (2)   Continuing violation. In any case in which an offense is of a
continuing nature, each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, and shall subject the person so violating such provision to a
separate fine for each such day.
      (3)   Public service. Any penalty imposed for a violation of this code
may include, or consist of, a requirement that the person so convicted performs
some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up
of litter in public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village may be
revoked by the court or by the governing body.
   (C)   Application. The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable
to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act
which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach of violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-2-2022)
CHAPTER 11: ALTERNATIVE SETTLEMENT FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Section
   
11.01   Alternative settlement for ordinance violations
   
11.02   Payment of compromised amount
   
11.03   Failure to settle claim; prosecution
§ 11.01 ALTERNATIVE SETTLEMENT FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who has received a citation for violation of any of the
provisions of this code may settle an initial ordinance violation charge by
paying the minimum amount of the fine specified by such code provision, plus
$50. Any person charged with a subsequent violation of such code provision may
settle such subsequent ordinance violation charge by paying one and one-half
times the amount required for settlement of an initial ordinance violation
charge. The Village Attorney or his or her designee may withdraw any such offer
for settlement, refuse payment or refund payments previously made if the
Village Attorney or his or her designee believes that such settlement would not
be in the best interests of the village, would not lead to compliance with this
code, or would otherwise deprecate the seriousness of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 11.02 PAYMENT OF COMPROMISED AMOUNT.
   Any person wishing to settle and compromise an offense pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall pay the required amount either by mailing a
check or money order together with the violator’s copy of the citation to the
Village of Forreston, P.O. Box 206. Forreston, IL 61030, or by paying the same
in person at the Village Hall during regular business hours. Checks or money
orders should be made payable to the Village of Forreston.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 11.03 FAILURE TO SETTLE CLAIM; PROSECUTION.
   If payment of any settlement amount hereunder is not received by the village
within 30 days from the date such offense was allegedly committed, or ten days
prior to the listed court date of any such citation, whichever is earlier, the
village may authorize the Village Attorney or his or her designee to proceed
with an ordinance violation charge by filing such charge with the County
Circuit Clerk’s office. In the event the village proceeds with the filing of an
ordinance violation, the respondent shall be responsible for all costs to the
extent permissible by law, in addition to any fine.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-15-2021)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Election, term, authority
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Meeting rules of order
   
30.04   Committees
   
30.05   Records
   
30.06   Salary
   
30.07   Presiding officer
   
30.08   Public comment
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 ELECTION, TERM, AUTHORITY.
   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected and serve for
a four-year term as is provided by statute. The Village Board shall be the
legislative division of the village government and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as may be authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the Village Board shall be
held on the first and third Mondays in each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. in
the Village Hall. If the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting
shall take place on the next day at the same hour and place. Adjourned meetings
may be held at such other times as the Village Board may determine. Notice of
all meetings shall be given by the Village Clerk in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120, of the state.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Village Board may be called
by the President or three Board members; provided that a written notice of such
meeting shall be given to each member of the Board at least 24 hours before the
time set for the meeting. In case all of the elected members of the Board are
present at any special meeting then the requirement of notice shall be
unnecessary and shall be deemed waived.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the elected members of the Village Board shall
constitute a quorum thereof, but no ordinance shall be passed except upon the
favorable vote of a majority of the elected members as is provided by statute.
   (D)   Disturbing meetings. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the Village Board or any meeting of any
commission, committee or board of the village. Any person violating any
provision of this division (D) may be prosecuted as provided by law and may be
summarily removed from the Village Board chambers and Village Hall or such
other place where the meeting is held.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 2023-09, passed 9-6-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.03 MEETING RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business at meetings of the Village
Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Reports of officers;
      (4)   Reports of standing committees;
      (5)   Reports of special committees;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   Presentation of petitions or communications to the Village Board;
and
      (8)   New business.
   (B)   Rescinded action. No vote or action of the Village Board shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there be present at such special
meeting as many members of the Village Board as were present at the meeting
when such vote or action was taken, as it provided by statute.
   (C)   Resolutions. Any resolution submitted to the Village Board shall be
reduced to writing before being voted upon, at the request of any two members
of the Board.
   (D)   Addressing meetings. No person shall speak or address the Village
Board unless first recognized by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Suspension of rules. The rules of order, other than those prescribed
by statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   (F)   Robert’s Rules of Order. Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the
deliberations of the Village Board except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 2023-09, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 30.04 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees.
      (1)   The following shall be the standing committees of the Village
Board:
         (a)   Committee on Planning;
         (b)   Committee on Finance;
         (c)   Committee on Streets and Alleys;
         (d)   Committee on Buildings, Grounds, Parks and Zoning;
         (e)   Committee on Ordinances;
         (f)   Committee on Police, Public Health and Civil Defense; and
         (g)   Committee on Sewer and Water.
      (2)   In addition, the Village Board, meeting as a committee on the
whole, shall constitute the Liquor Commission for the village.
   (B)   Special committees. The President shall appoint such special
committees as he or she may deem necessary or as may be directed by the Village
Board.
   (C)   Membership in committees. The President shall appoint the members of
all standing and special committees, in the absence of specific direction by
the Village Board, and shall designate the Chairpersons thereof.
   (D)   Duties of committees.
      (1)   Committee on Police, Public Health and Civil Defense. There shall
be a committee on Police, Public Health and Civil Defense, appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
The Village President shall be Chairperson of said Committee.
         (a)   Duties. Said Committee shall have the powers of police officers
and conservators of the peace and shall see to the enforcement of all health
rules. It shall examine all cases of contagious diseases arising in the
village, and shall see to the enforcement of quarantine rules and determine the
time for raising the quarantine. It shall give to the Village Board information
and advice concerning the health of the village, and shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned to it by the Board.
         (b)   Analysis, inspections. It shall be the duty of said Committee to
make analysis of any food or drink alleged to be tainted or unwholesome, and to
analyze the drinking water of the village, whenever requested to do so by the
Board. The Committee shall assist in the enforcement of all ordinances relating
to the sale or storage of food and drink intended for human consumption, and
shall make or cause to be made such tests and analyses and inspections as may
be necessary for this purpose.
      (2)   Committee on Building, Grounds, Parks and Zoning. There is hereby
created the Committee on Buildings, Grounds, Parks and Zoning which shall be
appointed by the President with the consent of the Village Board.
         (a)   General duties. It shall be the duty of said Committee to see to
the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to building or zoning and
to inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered as frequently
as may be necessary to insure compliance with the village ordinances.
         (b)   Stop order. The Committee shall have the power to order all work
stopped on construction or alteration or repair of buildings in the village
when such work is being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the zoning ordinance. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such an order except on their written permission,
provided, that if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a
written order within an hour. Such written stop order may be served by any
police officer.
         (c)   Entry powers. The Committee shall have the power to make or
cause to be made entry into any building or premises where the work of
altering, repairing or constructing any building or structure is going on, for
the purpose of making inspections, at any reasonable hour.
      (3)   Committee on Sewer and Water. There is hereby created the Committee
on Sewer and Water, an executive committee of the village, which shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
         (a)   Waterworks and sewers. The Committee on Sewer and Water shall
have charge of the operation of the waterworks system, sewers and drains in any
public street or other place belonging to the village. Care of the waterworks
system, sewers and drains shall be under the Committee on Sewer and Water,
which shall be charged with the repair and operation of the same.
         (b)   Public property. The Committee on Sewer and Water shall have
charge of the repair, care and maintenance of all public streets, alleys and
sidewalks, and other public places in the village. All public property and
buildings not assigned by ordinance to some other officer shall be in the
custody of the Committee on Sewer and Water and it shall have charge of the
care, maintenance and repair of such property and buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.05 RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Board
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 30.06 SALARY.
   Effective May 1, 2009, each Trustee shall receive a salary of $80 per
meeting attended for all regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
Trustees shall not receive any salary for attending meetings of committees or
subcommittees. Trustees shall not be penalized for not attending any meeting of
the Board of Trustees, committees or subcommittees.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6) (Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 30.07 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The President shall be the presiding officer of the Village Board at all
regular or special meetings and when the Village Board meets as a committee of
the whole.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 30.08 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Any person seeking to address the members of the Village
Board, or any commission or committee, at any public meeting will be permitted
to speak on any matter listed on the agenda or any other matter of public
concern in accordance with these rules and applicable state statutes.
   (B)   Board meetings.
      (1)   The agenda for each meeting of the Village Board shall include a
“petitions or communications” item, during which any member of the public may
address the Village Board. Any person so addressing the Village Board shall
state his or her name and the topic of discussion at the commencement of that
person’s comments.
      (2)   No person shall speak or address the Village Board unless first
recognized by the presiding officer.
      (3)   Public comment at a Village Board meeting shall be limited to no
more than five minutes per speaker and to no more than one hour total per
meeting, unless either of said time limits is extended by majority vote of the
Village Board members present. The presiding officer may designate the Village
Clerk, Chief of Police or other officer of the village to monitor the time
utilized by each speaker and to notify the speaker when the allotted time has
expired.
      (4)   At any meeting of the Village Board, the presiding officer, at his
or her discretion, may request that persons desiring to address the Village
Board at that meeting sign in on a “request to comment” form, providing for the
speaker’s name and the topic to be discussed by the speaker.
      (5)   If the presiding officer recognizes that more than 20 persons wish
to address the Village Board at any one meeting, the presiding officer may
limit each speaker to comment of no more than three minutes. Whenever any group
of persons wishes to address the Village Board on the same subject matter, the
presiding officer may request that a spokesperson be chosen from the group. If
such spokesperson speaks on behalf of multiple members of a group, the
presiding officer may permit the spokesperson to address for a period longer
than the otherwise specified time limits. If other matters are to be presented
by other persons in the same group, the presiding officer may request that the
group limit the number of such persons or may request that the additional
comment be limited to information which has not already been presented by the
group spokesperson or by other members of the group in order that the total
comment period for that meeting not be exceeded.
      (6)   Any person invited by a member of the Village Board to address the
Village Board at a meeting is subject to such time limitation, if any, as the
majority of the members of the Village Board present may prescribe.
   (C)   Meetings of commissions, committees and boards.
      (1)   The time limits specified above shall not apply to persons
addressing the Zoning Board of Appeals, Plan Commission or any other municipal
body when such body is conducting a quasi-judicial hearing. Any such body may
establish reasonable rules and time limits regarding the number and amount of
time that persons advocating for or against pending matters must follow, so
long as such rules conform to other requirements of state statute.
      (2)   Commissions, committees or other boards duly appointed or acting
pursuant to authority of the Village Board may establish rules for public
comment and for persons wishing to address that commission, committee or board.
No rules adopted by any such commission, committee or board shall be adopted
that are more restrictive than the rules established for comment to the Village
Board. In the absence of the establishment of rules for public comment by any
commission, committee or board, the rules governing public comment for the
Village Board shall apply.
   (D)   Meeting disruptions. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the Village Board or any meeting of any
commission, committee or board of the village. Any person violating any
provision hereof, in addition to any other penalties set forth in this chapter,
may be prosecuted as provided by law and may be summarily removed from the
Village Board chambers and Village Hall or such other place where the meeting
is held.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 9-6-2023) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of the
Committee thereby violating of §
30.04 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 each day on which
any work in violation of such order is done.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Effect of chapter regulations
   
31.002   Appointments and elections
   
31.003   Terms of office; vacancies
   
31.004   Termination of office, deliver property
   
31.005   Powers and duties
   
31.006   Oath
   
31.007   Bond
   
31.008   Salaries
   
31.009   Offenses against officers
Village President
   
31.020   Election, term
   
31.021   Powers and duties
   
31.022   Bond
   
31.023   Salary
   
31.024   President Pro Tem
Village Clerk
   
31.035   Establishment of office; appointment; term
   
31.036   Bond and salary
   
31.037   Powers and duties
   
31.038   Records and reports
   
31.039   Custodian of documents
   
31.040   FOIA Officer
Village Treasurer
   
31.055   Appointment
   
31.056   Powers and duties
   
31.057   Bond
   
31.058   Salary
Village Attorney
   
31.070   Creation of office, appointment
   
31.071   Powers and duties
Budget Officer
   
31.085   Adoption of annual budget
   
31.086   Appointment, powers and duties
   
31.087   Computation of annual budget
   
31.088   Public inspection, notice and hearing on budget
   
31.089   Revision of annual budget
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 EFFECT OF CHAPTER REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers or
employees of the village, regardless of the time of creating the office or of
the time of the appointment of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 31.002 APPOINTMENTS AND ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Employees shall be selected by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Village Board. The President, with the consent of the Village
Board, shall make the following and any other appointments to fill all
appointive offices:
      (1)   Attorney;
      (2)   Budget officer;
      (3)   Emergency services;
      (4)   Planning Commission members;
      (5)   Treasurer; and
      (6)   Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.003 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Every appointive officer or employee of the village shall hold office for a
term of one year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified
unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 31.004 TERMINATION OF OFFICE, DELIVER PROPERTY.
   Every officer of the village, upon the termination of his or her office, for
any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and
records which may be the property of the village; and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office such property shall
be delivered either to the Clerk or to the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 31.005 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The President shall have the power to assign to any appointive officer any
duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer; and
shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or
duties of officers.
   (A)   Records. All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open
to inspection by the President, or any member of the Village Board at
reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance.
   (B)   Monies received. Every officer of the village shall at least once each
day turn over all monies received by him or her in his or her official capacity
to the Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same was
received.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.006 OATH.
   Every officer of the village, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the oath
prescribed by statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25). Said oath, so subscribed shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 31.007 BOND.
   (A)   Bonds for officers. Every officer shall, if required by the Village
Board, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in
such amount as may be determined by the Village Board and with such sureties as
it may approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his
or her office or position.
   (B)   Surety bonds.
      (1)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this state as a surety company, or an individual approved as surety
by the Village Board, in the absence of specific provision to the contrary by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the village against any loss or
liability because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for
any other reason, the Village Board may order a new surety or sureties to be
secured for such bond
      (3)   If such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten days
from the time such order is transmitted to the principal on the bond, or his or
her assignee, the Village Board shall declare the bond to be void, and
thereupon such principal or assignee, shall be deemed to have surrendered the
privilege or position as condition of which the bond was required.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 31.008 SALARIES.
   All officers and employees of the village shall receive such salaries as may
be provided from time to time by resolution. No officer or employee receiving a
salary from the village shall be entitled to retain any portion of any fees
collected by him or her in the performance of his or her duties as municipal
officer or employee in the absence of a specific ordinance to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 31.009 OFFENSES AGAINST OFFICERS.
   (A)   Impersonation. It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate
without lawful authority any village officer or employee.
   (B)   Interference. It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any
officer or employee of the village while said officer or employee is engaged in
the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 31.020 ELECTION, TERM.
   The President shall be elected for a four-year term, and shall serve until
his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10
§ 31.021 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General provisions. The President shall be the chief executive officer
of the village and shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her
by statute or ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and employees of the village, and shall have the power and
authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to village affairs kept
by any officer or employee of the village, at any reasonable time.
      (1)   The Village President shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution
or motion except where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie, or when
one-half of the Trustees have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or
motion, and except where otherwise authorized as provided by applicable law. In
such instances specified, the Village President shall vote.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall deprive a President Pro Tem from
voting in his or her capacity as Trustee but he or she shall not be entitled to
another vote in his or her capacity as President Pro Tem.
   (B)   Appointment of officers. The President shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village, whose
election or appointment is not otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner.
   (C)   Designation of officer’s duties. Whenever there is a dispute as to the
respective duties or powers of any appointed officer of the village this
dispute shall be settled by the President after consultation with the Village
Attorney; and the President shall have the power to delegate to any appointed
officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform that duty.
   (D)   Formal occasions. The President shall act for and on behalf of the
village on formal occasions and receptions; but in his or her absence or
inability to attend any such function the Board may select any other village
officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-12-1
§ 31.022 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office the President shall
execute a bond in the amount of $3,000, or as may be required by the Village
Board, and with such sureties as may be required by the Board, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.023 SALARY.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 2009, the President shall receive a salary of $120
per meeting attended for all regular and special meetings of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The President shall not receive any salary for attending meetings of
committees or subcommittees.
   (C)   The President shall not be penalized for not attending any meetings of
the Board of Trustees, committees or subcommittees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 31.024 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the President, the Village Board
shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tem, who during the
absence or disability of the President shall possess the powers of President,
as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   There is hereby established the office of Village Clerk. The Village Clerk
shall be appointed by the Village President with the concurrence of the Board
of Trustees for a definite term not to exceed the term of the Village President
then holding office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 31.036 BOND AND SALARY.
   Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Village Clerk shall
execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the
Village Board, conditioned upon the faithful performance of duties. Effective
May 1, 2009, the Clerk shall receive a salary of $80 per meeting attended for
all regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees. The Clerk shall not
receive a salary for attending meetings of committees or subcommittees. The
Clerk shall not be penalized for not attending any meetings of the Board of
Trustees, committees or subcommittees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 31.037 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village Clerk shall:
   (A)   Signatures. Seal and attest all contracts of the village, and all
licenses, permits and other such documents as shall require this formality;
   (B)   Money collected. Turn over all money received by him or her on behalf
of the village to the Village Treasurer promptly on receipt of the same; and
with such money he or she shall give a statement as to the source thereof;
   (C)   Accounts. Keep accounts showing all money received by him or her on
behalf of the village, and the source and disposition thereof and such other
accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance;
   (D)   Seal. Be the custodian of the village seal and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever it is required;
   (E)   Documents. See §
31.039 of this chapter;
   (F)   Indices. Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and records
kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had;
   (G)   Act as village collector. Act as village collector unless and until a
separate village collector is appointed as provided by law; and
   (H)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided, perform
such duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance, and
attend all meetings of the Village Board, and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the journal provided therefor; and he or she shall record in a
book to be kept for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the Village Board,
and at the foot of the record shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, approval and publication of such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3) (Ord. 2009-10, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 31.038 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinance and other records
which the Clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register
of all licenses and permits issued, and the payments thereon; a record showing
all of the officers and regular employees of the village, and such other
records as may be required by the Village Board.
   (B)   Reports. The Village Clerk shall make and return to the President of
the Board a monthly report, verified by affidavit of all such fees and
emoluments received by him or her for licenses or from any sources on behalf of
the village, and shall attach to said report the Treasurer’s receipt for all
such monies due from him or her to the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.039 CUSTODIAN OF DOCUMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the
village which are not assigned to the custody of some other office of the
village by the President or Board of Trustees, and shall be responsible for
maintaining the village’s compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, being
5 ILCS 140.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5) (Ord. 2009-10, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 31.040 FOIA OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk, or any individual acting in the official
capacity as designated Village Clerk, is hereby appointed by the Board of
Trustees to be the designated Chief Freedom of Information Act Officer for the
village to be responsible for and to perform those duties required by the
Illinois Freedom of Information Act (herein the “Act”). In such capacity, the
Village Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining the village’s compliance
with all statutory obligations of the Act and be empowered to consult with the
Village Attorney in complying with all issues relating to the Act.
      (2)   The Deputy Clerk shall also serve as a designated Freedom of
Information Act Officer and assist the Village Clerk in performing such duties
as necessary to maintain the village’s compliance with the Act.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall make:
      (1)    The directory of FOIA officers;
      (2)   The address where requests for public records should be directed;
and
      (3)   Any fees allowable under § 6 of the Act available for inspection
and copying upon request or through the mail, and shall also cause that
information to be posted on the official website of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. 2009-10, passed 12-21-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.055 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the President with the consent
of the Village Board and serve for a one-year term and until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-1)
§ 31.056 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him or her
by statute or ordinance.
   (A)   Receipt and payment of monies. He or she shall receive all money paid
into the village, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands
of such other officers as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out only on
vouchers or orders properly signed by the Village Clerk and the President.
   (B)   Deposit of funds. He or she shall deposit the village funds in such
depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by law, and he
or she shall keep the village money separate and distinct from his or her own,
and shall not intermingle his or her own money with it or make private or
personal use of the village funds.
   (C)   Records. The Treasurer shall keep such records showing all money
received by him or her, the source from which it was received, and the purpose
for which it was paid out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all
times the financial status of the village.
   (D)   Accounts. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by the Village Board, and shall keep them in the manner required by
the Board.
   (E)   Reports. The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Board showing
the state of the finances of the Village, and the amounts received and spent
during the month, which reports shall be filed. And he or she shall make an
annual report at the close of fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts
and expenditures of the village and his or her transactions during the
preceding year. Each report shall be verified under oath.
   (F)   Register of warrants. The Treasurer shall keep a register of all
warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or her or paid by him or her, and all
vouchers, as is required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-2)
§ 31.057 BOND.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall give bond in such sum as may be required by the
Village Board, but the bond shall not be less than the amount of $10,000 with
sureties to be approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   The bond shall be continued upon the faithful performance by the
Treasurer of his or her duties of office, and to indemnify the village for any
loss due to any neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-3)
§ 31.058 SALARY.
   The Treasurer shall receive the salary as shall from time to time be fixed
by resolution, and after the same has been once fixed it shall not be increased
or diminished to take effect during the term for which said Treasurer was
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-4)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 31.070 CREATION OF OFFICE, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney, an executive
office of the village.
   (B)   The Attorney shall be appointed by the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-1)
§ 31.071 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Suits and actions. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the village on behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such person as
an officer of the village.
   (B)   Judgments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
village, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   (C)   Advice.
      (1)   The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village, and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever requested
to do so by any village official.
      (2)   Upon request by the President or by the Village Board, he or she
shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   (D)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to
the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   (E)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents,
or instruments, to which the village may be a party, and upon request by the
Village Board, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-2)
BUDGET OFFICER
§ 31.085 ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The village hereby adopts paragraphs 8-2-9.1 through and including 8-2-9.10
of Chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, being 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1 through
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.10, in lieu of the passage of an annual appropriation
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-1) (Ord. 84-1, passed 3-5-1984)
§ 31.086 APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The President of the Board of Trustees, with approval of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint a budget officer who shall have the powers, duties and
responsibilities enumerated in paragraphs 8-2-9.1 through and including 8-2-
9.10 of Chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, being 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1
through 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.10, as they are now or may hereafter be amended. The
budget officer shall give a bond in such sum as may be required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-2) (Ord. 84-1, passed 3-5-1984)
§ 31.087 COMPUTATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The budget officer shall compile a budget pursuant to paragraphs 8-2-9.1
through and including 8-2-9.10 of Chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes,
being 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1 through 65 ILCS 5/8-2- 9.10, as they are now, or may
hereafter be amended containing estimates of the revenues available before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies together with recommended
expenditures for the municipality and all of its boards, commissions and
departments. Said budget shall be adopted prior to May 1 of each fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-3) (Ord. 84-1, passed 3-5-1984)
§ 31.088 PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET.
   Copies of the tentative annual budget shall be made available for public
inspection in printed or typewritten form in the office of the Village Clerk
for at least ten days prior to the passage of the annual budget. Not less than
one week after the budget is available for inspection, and prior to final
action on the budget, at least one public hearing shall be held on the budget
by the Village Board of Trustees. Notice of this hearing shall be given by
publication in a newspaper having a general circulation in the village at least
one week prior to the time of hearing.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-4) (Ord. 84-1, passed 3-5-1984)
§ 31.089 REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Village Board of Trustees may delegate authority to heads of municipal
departments, boards or commissions to delete, add to or change items previously
budgeted to the department, board or commission, subject to such limitation or
requirement for prior approval by the budget officer as the Village Board upon
a two-thirds vote of the members may establish. The annual budget may be
revised by a vote of two-thirds of the Village Board by deleting, adding to or
changing budgeted items. No revision of the budget shall be made increasing the
budget in the event funds are not available to effectuate the purpose of the
revision.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-5) (Ord. 84-1, passed 3-5-1984)
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Term of office
   
32.04   Procedure
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Land subdivision or resubdivision, official map
   
32.07   Expenditures
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the village and contiguous territory
not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality, a Planning Commission is hereby created under
authority of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5, approved May 29, 1961, and effective
July 1, 1961, and as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members and appointment. The Planning Commission shall consist of
seven members, citizens of the village, appointed by the President of the Board
of Trustees on the basis of their particular fitness for their duty on said
Planning Commission and subject to the approval of the Village Board of
Trustees. Persons may be appointed as ex officio members of the Planning
Commission for terms coterminous with the terms of their elected or appointed
office. Said members shall not enjoy voting privileges.
   (B)   Makeup of Planning Commission. Members of the Planning Commission
shall reside within the village or within territory contiguous to the village
and not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included within any other municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972; Ord. passed 3-24-1981)
§ 32.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Of the seven members three shall serve for a period of three years, two for
a period of two years, two for a period of one year and the like. Thereafter,
such members shall serve for a period of three years. Vacancies shall be filled
by appointments for unexpired terms only. All members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation except that, if the Village Board of Trustees deems
it advisable, they may receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to
time by said Village Board of Trustees and provided for in the appropriation
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972; Ord. passed 3-24-1981)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURE.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Planning
Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary,
and adopt and later change or alter, rules and regulations of organization and
procedure consistent with village ordinances and state laws. The Commission
shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times
to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an annual report with the
President of the Board of Trustees and the Village Board of Trustees setting
forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties; to:
   (A)   Prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted shall be the official comprehensive plan, or
part thereof, of the village. The plan shall be advisory except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village Board
of Trustees. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of said plan and ordinances with
the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide
for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the
village and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable
standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land
and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as
herein defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the
location, width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys,
ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers,
and sewage collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall
become regulatory only when adopted by ordinance;
   (B)   Designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (C)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees, from time to time, such
changes in the comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed
necessary;
   (D)   Prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees, from time to
time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of
the official comprehensive plan;
   (E)   Give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   Arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   Cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
   (H)   Exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5, approved May 29, 1961, and effective
July 1, 1961, and as amended, as may be conferred by the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 32.06 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION, OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of
the village. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of said plan and ordinances,
including the official map, with the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision
presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits of the village
or within contiguous territory which is not more than one and one-half miles
beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid
unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design, and
standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service
facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for
residential purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water
supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment
in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances, including the
official map.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-6) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 32.07 EXPENDITURES.
   The Commission may, at the discretion of the Village Board of Trustees,
employ a paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and other
necessary expenses shall be provided for by the Village Board of Trustees from
the public funds. If said Planning Commission shall deem it advisable to secure
technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the Village
Board of Trustees and appropriations by the Village Board of Trustees therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-8) (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Creation of Department
   
33.02   Supervision of Department
   
33.03   Police Chief
   
33.04   Police officers
   
33.05   Resisting an officer
   
33.06   Part-time police
§ 33.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department of the
village. The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, and such
other members as may be provided from time to time by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 2004-21, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 33.02 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The President of the Board of Trustees shall have the supervision of the
police, subject to any and all orders of the Village Board, and shall see that
all police officers are prompt and faithful in the discharge of their duties,
and from time to time shall take such measures as he or she may deem expedient
for the preservation of peace and good order, and the enforcement of the laws
and ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 33.03 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police.
The Chief, and all regular police officers, shall be appointed by the
President, with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Records and reports. He or she shall keep such records and make
such reports concerning the activities of his or her Department as may be
required by statute or by the Village President and Village Board.
      (2)   Serving process. No member of the Police Department except the
Chief shall serve any process except on command of the Chief of the Police
Department.
      (3)   Rules and regulations. The Chief of Police may make or prescribe
such rules and regulations for the conduct and guidance of the members of the
Police Department as he or she shall deem advisable, with the advice and
consent of the President and the Village Board, and such rules shall be binding
on such members. The respective rank and grade of the members, as to
superiority within the Department, may be prescribed by regulation.
      (4)   Stolen property, custody. The Chief of Police shall be the
custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 33.04 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment, term, salary. Police officers shall hold office for the
time specified in the order of their appointment and shall be paid such salary
as the Village Board may from time to time fix.
   (B)   Oath. Every police officer shall, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, take and subscribe the oath prescribed for village officers.
   (C)   Conduct. It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department
to conduct himself or herself, in a proper and law abiding manner at all times
and to avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall
obey the orders and directions of his or her superior.
   (D)   Witness fees. Any member of the Police Department shall appear as
witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an
ordinance or of any state or federal law. No such member shall retain any
witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit to which the village
is a party; and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the Chief
of Police, who shall deposit the same with the Village Treasurer.
   (E)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department
to see to the enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all
statutes applicable thereto; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of
the law and arrest violators thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 33.05 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   Whoever shall resist any police officer in the discharge of his or her duty
or shall interfere with, hinder, or prevent him or her from discharging his or
her duty, or shall in any manner assist any person in custody of any such
officer to escape, or shall rescue or attempt to rescue any person so in
custody, shall be subject to a fine.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act, being 50 ILCS 705, and the rules and requirements
of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time in
accordance with applicable law. Part-time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   Municipal occupation taxes
§ 34.01 MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES.
   (A)   Service occupation tax.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service from the gross receipts
received from such business, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-
11-5.
      (2)   Every serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day on each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 115/9.
      (3)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (B)   Retailers’ occupation tax.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8-11-1 of Chapter 24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
      (2)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall
file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of “An Act in Relation to a Tax upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
      (3)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
CHAPTER 35: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
35.01   Generally
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 35.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 through 430/10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5
ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violation of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J) If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1) (Ord. 2004-08, passed 5-17-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Administration, enforcement
   
50.03   Cross-connections prohibited
   
50.04   Corrections and protective devices
   
50.05   Piping identification
   
50.06   Private water storage tanks
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance in
which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP. The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe; but shall not be less than one inch and need
not be more than 12 inches.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply maintained in addition to a public
water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground or
surface sources not meeting the requirements of Act No. 98 of the Public Acts
of 1913, as amended being §§ 325.201 to 325.214 of the Compiled Laws of 1948,
or water from a public water supply which in any way has been treated,
processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an
approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET. A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY. The Village of Forreston Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982)
§ 50.02 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Compliance with existing laws. A connection with a public water supply
system shall comply with the existing laws and rules and provisions of the code
of the village.
   (B)   Local control program. The village shall develop a comprehensive
control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross-connections,
and removal of all existing cross-connections and prevention of all future
cross-connections.
   (C)   Inspections. The Water Department of the village or any representative
thereof shall have the authority to inspect any premises to determine the
presence of an existing cross-connection and to order the elimination of such
cross-connection.
   (D)   Discontinuance of service.
      (1)   The Water Department is hereby authorized to discontinue water
service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a
cross-connection in violation of this code exists.
      (2)   The Water Department may take such other precautionary measures as
necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the village water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
cross-connection has been eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Cross-connection of the public water supply system and any other water
supply system or source including, but not limited to, the following are
prohibited:
   (A)   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply;
   (B)   By submerged inlet;
   (C)   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system;
   (D)   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant; and
   (E)   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   Any user of village water shall obtain written approval from the Water
Department of any proposed corrective action or protective device before using
or installing it. The total time allowed for completion of the necessary
corrections shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include
the time required to obtain and install equipment. If the cross-connection has
not been removed within the time as hereinafter specified, the village shall
physically separate the village water supply from the on-site piping system in
such manner that the two systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized
person.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982)
§ 50.05 PIPING IDENTIFICATION.
   When a secondary water source is used in addition to the village water
supply, exposed village water and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety, it will be necessary to protect the village water
supply at the service connection in a manner acceptable to the Village Water
Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982)
§ 50.06 PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS.
   A private water storage tank supplied from the village water supply system
shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. passed 6-7-1982)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Service Charges
   
51.01   Basis for water service charges
   
51.02   User charges; meters
Service Regulations
   
51.15   Water service hook-up, permits and fees
   
51.16   Application for water service; deposit
   
51.17   Bills
   
51.18   Disputed bills
   
51.19   Delinquent bills
   
51.20   Computation of time
   
51.21   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.22   Restoration of water service
   
51.23   Revenues
   
51.24   Accounts
   
51.25   Access to records
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.01 BASIS FOR WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
water facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge, a water
meter replacement charge, a debt service charge and a capital improvement
charge.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 51.02 USER CHARGES; METERS.
   (A)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters. The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual water volume;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the facilities, including a replacement fund for the year for all
works categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to water facility categories by
volume; and
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt
service to the estimated annual water volume as a cost per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   The capital improvement charge may be levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the water works. The
capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be
accrued as a cost per 1,000 gallons.
   (D)   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The water service charge shall be reviewed annually and
revised, if required, to reflect a change in local capital costs, rate of
inflation changes and OM&R costs changes.
   (E)   The users of the water services will be notified annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the water operation, maintenance and
replacement.
   (F)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the nearest 1,000
gallons.
   (G)   Basic user charge. There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic user charge of $5.02 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption to be
applied to users to recover OM&R costs.
   (H)   Capital improvement charge. There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvement charge of $3.01 per 1,000 gallons of metered
water consumption to be applied to users to recover capital improvement costs.
   (I)   Debt service charge. There shall be and there is hereby established a
debt service charge of $5.14 monthly to be applied to users to recover debt
service costs.
   (J)   Meter charge. There shall be and there is hereby established a meter
charge of $1.50 monthly to be applied to users to recover meter replacement
costs.
   (K)   Minimum charge. A minimum charge of $22.70 monthly shall be applied to
all users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons monthly. This
minimum charge consists of $10.05 for OM&R, $5.14 for debt service costs, $1.50
for meter replacement cost and $6.01 for capital improvement costs.
   (L)   (1)   All non-metered residential users and non-metered non-
residential users of the water facilities shall pay a flat rate charge of
$22.70 monthly. The flat rate consists of $10.05 for OM&R costs, $5.14 for debt
service costs, $1.50 for meter replacement cost and $6.01 for capital
improvement costs.
      (2)   The flat rate charge will allow a maximum of 2,000 gallons monthly.
In the event use of the water facilities is determined by the village to be in
excess of 2,000 gallons monthly, the village may require such flat rate user to
install metering devices on the water supply to measure the amount of service
supplied.
   (M)   Multiple users. A multiple user is defined as any additional number of
family or commercial units located on the same premises, or being serviced
through a single water meter, such as cottages, apartment buildings, trailers,
more than one commercial unit in the same building or commercial and/or
residential units located in the same building. In all such cases, there shall
be an additional minimum service charge for each additional unit connected to
the system. The payment of the minimum charge for each additional unit shall
allow the use of the quantity of water allowed for each minimum bill. After
determining the total water allowance, calculated by multiplying the number of
units billed times the water allowed for each unit, any water consumed in
excess of the total water allowance shall be billed at the rate applicable to
that particular bracket of water without further consideration to the number of
units connected.
   (N)   Out-of-village rate. A user out of the village shall be described as
any user of service to property which is located outside of the boundaries of
the village. Water service must be metered and such user charge is hereby
established at the rate of 200% of the regular water rate charged to resident
users. The property owner requesting water service to a residence located
outside of the village limits shall be responsible for all costs of purchase,
installation and maintenance of the meters and service line.
   (O)   Meters. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and or
occupant to pay for replacement of any water meters which are damaged due to
meter tampering or negligence (e.g., freezing and the like).
   (P)   Hook-up charges. Fees for new connections made to any water main of
the village for the tap, connection fee and the meter are as follows:
Connection Type Fee
Connection Type                   Fee
Commercial (includes businesses)1
 2” or under water service     $1,200
 Over 2” water service         $1,400
Residential (family dwellings)2
 3/4” water service            $850
 1” water service              $1,000
Notes:
1: This fee covers the tap and connection fee. The business shall supply the
meter with the approval of the Water Department. Any custom service requests
will be billed at time and material.
2: This fee covers the tap, connection fee and a meter.
 
   (Q)   Water leaks. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
repair any leaks between the property line and the water meter. Repair of the
leak must be made within 30 days from date of receipt of written notice or the
water service will be disconnected from the village system. Reconnection will
not be made until the leak is repaired.
   (R)   Computation of water service charge.
      (1)   The water service charge shall be computed by the following
formula:
CW=CM+(CU+CD+CC+CT) (Vu - X)
      (2)   Where:
         (a)   CW= Amount of water service charge in dollars per billing
period;
         (b)   CM= Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, replacement and
debt service (division (G) above);
         (c)   CU= Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and
replacement;
         (d)   CD= Debt service charge (division (I) above);
         (e)   CT= Meter replacement charge (division (J) above);
         (f)   CC= Capital improvement charge (division (H) above);
         (g)   Vu= Water volume for the billing period; and
         (h)   X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
(division (J) above).
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023)
SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 WATER SERVICE HOOK-UP, PERMITS AND FEES.
   No connection to the village water system shall be made without a permit
being issued therefor and 24 hours’ notice having been given to the village.
All such connections shall be made under the supervision of the village and no
connection shall be covered until the work has been inspected by the village or
the person authorized by it. Applications for such connection shall be made to
the Village Clerk using forms provided by the Village Clerk and with the
appropriate fee. (See §
51.02(O).)
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Application. No water from the village water system shall be turned on
for service into any premises by any person other than an employee of the
village. Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk using forms provided by the Village Clerk. Responsibility for
payment shall be as set forth in §
51.17. In the case of non-owner occupied premises, the applicant must provide
name, address and telephone information of both the owner and occupant(s) of
such premises. The deposit required by division (B) below shall be payable in
advance to be made at the time of application as a condition precedent for the
turn-on of the water service at a particular premises. Water service shall not
be turned on or otherwise restored to a premises until all fees, deposits and
delinquent charges have been paid in full; except that, when ownership of a
premises is transferred to a new owner, it shall not be the responsibility of
the new owner to pay the fees, deposits and delinquent charges prior to water
service being turned on or otherwise restored to a premises without proof of a
contract making the new owner responsible.
   (B)   Deposit required.
      (1)   In addition to payment of any other fees or amounts due and owing
the village, a deposit, in the amounts set forth below, shall be made with each
application for water service, whether the applicant is applying for water
service for the first time or whether through a change of address or otherwise
is applying for water service at a new, other or additional premises, which
deposit shall be a condition precedent to the supplying of such water. The
deposit shall be paid to the Village Clerk and shall be retained by the village
to ensure the payment of any outstanding bills or charges for water services
rendered upon termination of water service. The amount of the deposit, which
may be amended from time to time by the Village Board, shall be $200 with
respect to each single-family home or separately metered residential unit in a
multi-family premises, $200 with respect to each residential unit in a multi-
family premises that is served by a single water meter or shut-off box, $200
with respect to commercial property and $200 with respect to industrial
property.
      (2)   The water deposit shall be retained to the credit of the premises
in an account separate from the village’s water account of the water fund. Such
funds shall not be considered “revenue” unless and until such funds are drawn
upon and transferred into the water account of the water fund. When water
service is discontinued permanently via a request for and payment of a final
bill or otherwise, the deposit, less any amount still due the village for
provision of water services, penalties, fees and payment of any costs
associated with the liening of the premises for delinquent water service
payments or costs associated with other collection efforts, shall be refunded
to the applicant without interest or transferred to a different premises in the
village upon request of the applicant.
      (3)   Should a premises be vacated without the applicant requesting or
paying a final bill, without notifying the village of such vacancy, or failing
to claim a refund or transfer of the deposit within 60 days of vacancy, the
village shall notify the applicant at the last known address through the United
States Mail Service of any portion of the deposit available for refund.
      (4)   Should the applicant fail to notify the village of a claim for
refund within 30 days after the village sends notice through the United States
Mail Service as provided in division (B)(3) above, the balance of the deposit
shall be transferred to the water account of the water fund. The village shall
thereafter maintain a record of this transfer for a period of one year. If a
claim for refund of the deposit is filed within such one year period and the
applicant is entitled to such a refund, the village will make such refund from
the water account of the water fund. If no claim is filed, the deposit will
become non-refundable with any remaining portion of the deposit reimbursing the
village for its cost of handling and maintaining the records.
      (5)   When water service is terminated, if there remains any outstanding
bills or charges for water services rendered, then the deposit or that portion
of the deposit as is necessary, shall be applied to pay such bills or charges,
including any penalty fees that may have accrued.
      (6)   When a deposit has been drawn down to satisfy a water arrearage as
provided in division (B)(5) above, the applicant and the owner of the premises,
if different, shall be notified promptly through the United States Mail Service
sent to the premises served by such water service and at the address at which
the applicant and owner have registered with the village, if different. This
notice shall specify the amount of the deposit having been applied to satisfy
water arrearages, the remaining amount of the deposit or any remaining amounts
due for water services for which the deposit was insufficient to satisfy in
lull.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-20-2023)
§ 51.17 BILLS.
   (A)   Charges for water service shall be billed monthly. The village shall
render bills by the twenty- fifth day of the month for the applicable reading
cycle. All bills shall be due and payable by the fifteenth of the month
succeeding the month in which the bill was rendered. A penalty of $10 shall be
added to all bills not paid by such date.
   (B)   Person responsible for payment. The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the water service shall be jointly and
severally liability to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village.
   (C)   Delayed payment agreements. The village may, in the discretion of the
Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water, enter into a delayed payment
agreement with respect to any delinquent bill. Failure to comply with such
agreement shall subject the premises to the lien and termination of service
provisions provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 DISPUTED BILLS.
   (A)   At any time before the date of termination of water service, a person
responsible for the bill may dispute the bill or the basis for any such
termination.
   (B)   The procedure for resolving the dispute shall be as follows:
      (1)   Before the date of termination of water service, a person
responsible for the bill shall notify the Village Clerk in writing that he or
she disputes all or part of the amounts shown on the bill or the basis for
termination of water service, stating as completely as possible the basis for
the dispute.
      (2)   If the Village Clerk determines that the dispute is untimely or is
the same as a previously filed dispute, the Village Clerk shall mail to the
person filing the dispute a notice stating that the present dispute is untimely
or invalid. If the Village Clerk determines that the dispute is not untimely or
invalid, the Village Clerk shall, within three days after receipt of the
notice, arrange an informal meeting between such person and the Chair of the
Committee on Sewer and Water. The Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water
shall attempt to resolve the dispute in a manner satisfactory to both the Chair
of the Committee on Sewer and Water and the person, based on the applicable
village records, the person’s allegations and other other relevant materials
available to the Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water. Within five days of
completion of such meeting, the Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water shall
mail to the person a copy of his or her decision resolving the dispute.
      (3)   If the decision is unsatisfactory to the person filing the dispute,
such person, within five days of receipt of the Chair of the Committee on Sewer
and Water’s decision, may file in writing with the Village Clerk a notice for a
formal hearing before the Village Board. The formal hearing before the Village
Board shall be held within ten days of the Village Clerk’s receipt of such
notice. At the hearing, the Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water and the
person shall be entitled to present all evidence that is, in the Board of
Trustee’s view, relevant and material to the dispute, and to examine and cross
examine witnesses. A tape-recorded record of the hearing shall be maintained.
Based on the record established at the hearing, the Village Board, within five
days of completion of the hearing, shall issue its written decision formally
resolving the dispute. Such decision shall be final and binding.
   (C)   (1)   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve a person
from his or her obligation to:
         (a)   Timely and completely pay all other undisputed water charges and
the undisputed portions of the amounts which are subject to the present
dispute; and
         (b)   Otherwise comply with this chapter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (D) below, failure to timely and
completely pay all such undisputed amounts or to comply with this chapter shall
subject the premises to termination of water service in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Until the date of the Chair of the Committee on Sewer and Water’s
decision or the decision of the Village Board, whichever is later, the village
shall not terminate the water service of the person and shall not issue a
notice of termination solely based upon the matters in dispute. If it is
determined that the person must pay some or all of the disputed amounts, or
must take some action to comply with this chapter, the Chair of the Committee
on Sewer and Water or the Village Board, as applicable, shall promptly mail to
the person a notice of termination, which shall contain the following:
      (1)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
      (2)   The date of the notice of termination;
      (3)   The date of termination, which shall be at least 15 days after the
date of the notice of termination; and
      (4)   Notice that unless the village receives complete payment in the
amount shown prior to the date of termination, or that the violation has been
corrected, water service shall be terminated.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023)
§ 51.19 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Bills not paid on or before the fifteenth of the month succeeding the
month in which the bill was rendered shall be considered delinquent. The
village shall send a re-billing statement with the $10 penalty to the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the water service, to the
extent such information is available from the filed application for water
service. Such re-billing statement shall also include a notice stating that if
the re-billing is not paid by the twenty-fifth of the month succeeding the
month in which the initial bill was rendered then the delinquent charges may
create a lien on the premises pursuant to division (B) below and result in
water service being terminated pursuant to division (C) below.
   (B)   If the re-billing is not paid by the twenty-fifth of the month
succeeding the month in which the initial bill was rendered, the delinquent
bill may constitute a lien upon the premises for which water service is
supplied. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file with the
County Recorder of Deeds a notice of lien upon the premises. The filing of such
statement shall be deemed notice of the lien for said water service. This
notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a legal description of
the premises served, the amount of money due for such water service, including
recording fees and the costs of verifying the legal description on the premises
on which such lien is attached, and the date when such amount became
delinquent. Premises subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be foreclosed
in the manner as provided by law.
   (C)   Water service termination procedure.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
51.18(D), the provisions of this division (C) shall govern all terminations of
water service for nonpayment of utility charges or for failure to comply with
this chapter.
      (2)   If by the payment date shown on a water bill the village has not
received complete payment of the amounts shown on the bill or the violation of
this chapter has not been corrected, the Village Clerk shall mail to, or
personally serve upon the person who is responsible for the bill, a notice of
termination at least three days after payment date or the date the violation
was to be corrected. Such notice shall also be sent to the owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the water service, to the extent
such information is available from the filed application for water service.
      (3)   The notice of termination shall contain the following:
         (a)   The amount to be paid or the violation to be corrected;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date of termination, which shall be at least 15 days from
the date of the notice of termination;
         (d)   Notice that unless the Village Clerk receives complete payment
of the amount shown or that the violation has been corrected prior to the date
of termination, the water service shall be terminated; and
         (e)   Notice that in lieu of paying the entire amount shown, a person
who is responsible for the water bill, prior to the date of termination, may
notify the village that he or she disputes the correctness of all or part of
the amount shown if all or part of the amount shown was not the subject of a
previous dispute, or that he or she disputes that he or she is in violation of
this chapter. The basis of the dispute shall not have been the subject of a
previous dispute under this chapter.
      (4)   The village shall terminate water service on the date of
termination if, prior to the date of termination:
         (a)   The village has not received complete payment of the amount
shown on the notice of termination;
         (b)   The person has not notified the village that he or she disputes
the correctness of all or part of the amount shown on the notice of
termination;
         (c)   The person has not notified the village that he or she disputes
that he or she has violated this chapter; or
         (d)   The violation shown on the notice of violation has not been
corrected.
      (5)   If the village receives payment of the entire amount shown on the
notice of termination or the violation has been corrected prior to the date of
termination, such payment or correction shall be considered timely for purposes
of this chapter.
   (D)   Limitations on termination of water service.
      (1)   The village shall terminate water service for nonpayment of water
charges only during hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday.
No terminations shall be permitted on a legal holiday or on the day before a
legal holiday.
      (2)   The village shall not terminate water service for nonpayment of
amounts less than $150.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed by this chapter, the day of the
act or event from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not
be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless
it is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday. When
the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023)
§ 51.21 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   If service is discontinued as set forth above, the village shall charge a
discontinuance charge of $50.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 51.22 RESTORATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   Water service shall not be reinstated until all past due bills, including
penalties and removal of service charges are paid in full, together with a
payment of $50 for reinstating such service.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 51.23 REVENUES.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water system shall
be deposited in the water account of the water fund. All such revenues and
monies shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of the village and
all of the said sums, without any deductions whatever, shall be deposited into
the water and sewer account not more than ten days after receipt of the same,
or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
Village Board. The Village Treasurer shall administer such funds in every
respect in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-01,
passed 3-20-2023)
§ 51.24 ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at regular
annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water system.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 51.25 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or their authorized representatives shall have
access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village which are
applicable to the village system of user charges for the purpose of making
audits, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state grants and to
ensure compliance with the terms of the federal regulations and conditions of
any federal grant.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense
and shall also be subject to the termination of services provision of this
chapter. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The minimum penalty for violating §
51.16(C) shall be $10.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   User service charges; meters
Service Regulations
   
52.15   Sewer service hook-up; permits; fees
   
52.16   Bills
   
52.17   Dispute resolution
   
52.18   Delinquent bills
   
52.19   Computation of time
   
52.20   [Intentionally omitted]
   
52.21   [Intentionally omitted]
   
52.22   Revenues
   
52.23   Accounts
   
52.24   Access to records
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Clarification of word usage: “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissible.
   (A)   Federal government.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.), as
amended (Pub. L. No. 95-217).
      FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government participation in the
financing of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II,
grants for Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing
regulations.
   (B)   State government.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois’ participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   (C)   Local government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Forreston.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
Federal Act § 402.
      ORDINANCE or THIS CHAPTER. The ordinance contained within this
Chapter 52.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Forreston.
   (D)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable “NPDES permit”.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
food.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under of Federal Act § 307 (a); or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 milliliters of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
      PPM. Parts per million by weight.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with “wastewater”.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. As defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   (E)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge in the village sanitary
(or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   (F)   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
         (a)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating
wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
         (b)   Sometimes used as synonymous with “waste treatment plant”,
“wastewater treatment plant” or “pollution control plant”.
   (G)   Watercourse and connections.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (H)   User types.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with Federal, State and local governments.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units, such as houses, mobile homes,
apartment, permanent multi-family dwellings and the like.
      USER CLASS. The type of user “residential”, “institutional/governmental”,
“commercial”, or “industrial” as defined herein.
   (I)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of loans and bonds outstanding.
      LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs (e.g., debt service and capital improvement
costs).
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. Te assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §
52.16.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter, month or bi-monthy
period levied on all users of the wastewater facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE
shall be computed as outlined in §
52.16 and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the local
capital cost and surcharge, if applicable.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.02 USER SERVICE CHARGES; METERS.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
village shall consist of a basic user charge, a debt service charge, a capital
improvement charge and applicable surcharges.
   (B)   (1)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five-day, 20ºC biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 200
milligrams per liter (mg/l); and
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/1.
      (2)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and pounds
of SS to be treated;
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
         (c)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by
volume, BOD and SS;
         (d)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS;
         (e)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal domestic strength
sewage; and
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations
in excess of normal domestic strengths.
   (C)   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt
service to the estimated annual wastewater volume as a cost per 1,000 gallons.
   (D)   The capital improvement charge may be levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions, or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual
amount to be accrued to the estimated annual wastewater volume as a cost per
1,000 gallons.
   (E)   (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastewater exceeds
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/1) and SS (240 mg/1). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage
meters for all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/1 and 240 mg/1 concentrations for
BOD and SS respectively.
      (2)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent of Public Works and shall be
binding as a basis for surcharges.
   (F)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be revised, not
less often than annually, by Certified Public Accountants for the village in
their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs and OM&R costs.
   (G)   The users of the wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation,
maintenance and replacement.
   (H)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
nearest 1,000 gallons.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the Public
Waterworks System, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers ,
the person shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharges may be
required by the Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Superintendent.
   (I) Basic user charge.
      (1)   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user charge
of $6.83 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from zero through 2,000
gallons to be applied to users to recover OM&R costs.
      (2)   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user charge
of $5.75 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from 3,000 through
5,000 gallons to be applied to users to recover OM&R costs.
      (3)   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user charge
of $6.90 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from 6,000 gallons and
greater to be applied to users to recover OM&R costs.
   (J)   Debt service charge.
      (1)   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service
charge of $2.45 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from zero
through 2,000 gallons to be applied to users for debt service costs.
      (2)   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service
charge of $6.26 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from 3,000
through 15,000 gallons to be applied to users for debt service costs.
      (3)   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service
charge of $4.10 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from 16,000 and
greater gallons to be applied to users for debt service costs.
   (K)   Capital improvement charge.
      (1)   There shall be and there is hereby established a capital
improvement charge of $2.19 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from
zero through 2,000 gallons to be applied to users for capital improvement
costs.
      (2)   There shall be and there is hereby established a capital
improvement charge of $1.78 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from
3,000 through 15,000 gallons to be applied to users for capital improvement
costs.
      (3)   There shall be and there is hereby established a capital
improvement charge of $4.45 per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption from
16,000 and greater gallons to be applied to users for capital improvement
costs.
   (L)   Minimum charge. A minimum charge of $22.94 monthly shall be applied to
all users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons monthly. This
minimum charge consists of $13.66 for OM&R costs, $4.90 for debt service costs
and $4.38 for capital improvement costs.
   (M)   All non-metered residential users and non-metered, non-residential
users of the wastewater facilities shall pay a flat rate charge of $22.94
monthly. The flat rate charge consists of $13.66 for OM&R costs, $4.90 for debt
service costs and $4.38 for capital improvement costs. The flat rate charge
will allow a maximum of 2,000 gallons monthly. In the event use of the
wastewater facilities is determined by the village to be in excess of 2,000
gallons monthly, the village may require such flat rate user to install
metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure the amount of
service supplied.
   (N)   Multiple uses. A multiple user is defined as any additional number of
family or commercial units located on the same premises, or being serviced
through a single water meter, such as cottages, apartment buildings, trailers,
more than one commercial unit in the same building or commercial and/or
residential units located in the same building.
   (O)   Hook-up charges.
      (1)   Fees for new connections made to any sewer main of the village are
as follows:
 
Connection Type                   Fee
Commercial (includes businesses)
 4” or 6” sanitary sewer serv$1,400
 Larger than 6”                $1,600
Residential (family dwellings)
 4” or 6” sanitary sewer serv$1,000
 Larger than 6”                $1,200
 
      (2)   Any custom service requests will be billed at time and material.
   (P)   Sewer laterals. After the installation, the village shall be
responsible for the maintenance of the lateral lines between the lot line and
the village sanitary sewer.
   (Q)   Surcharge rates. The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Per pound of BOD: $0.57 per pound; and
      (2)   Per pound of SS: $0.26 per pound.
   (R)   Computation of wastewater service charge.
      (1)   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following
formula:
CW=CM+ (CU+CD+CC) (VU-X)+CS
      (2) Where:
         (a)   CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period;
         (b)   CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
(division (L) above);
         (c)   CU = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and
replacement (division (I) above);
         (d)   CD = Debt service charge (division (J) above);
         (e)   CC = Capital improvement charge (division (K) above);
         (f)   Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period;
         (g)   X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
(division (L) above); and
         (h)   CS = Surcharges, if applicable (division (Q) above).
   (S)   Waiver of charge for initial pool fill. On request, a waiving of the
initial charge for wastewater service based on the capacity of the pool
recorded in gallons will be allowed to persons after they acquire the required
permit for a pool that will hold a volume of water of 30 or more inches in
depth.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 SEWER SERVICE HOOK-UP; PERMITS; FEES.
   No connection to the village sewer system shall be made without a permit
being issued therefor and 24 hours notice having been given to the village. All
such connections shall be made under the supervision of the village and no
connection shall be covered until the work has been inspected by the village or
the person authorized by it. Applications for such connection shall be made to
the Village Clerk using forms provided by the Village Clerk and with the
appropriate fee. (See §
52.02(O).)
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 BILLS.
   (A)   Charges for sewer service shall be billed monthly. The village shall
render bills by the twenty- fifth day of the month for the applicable reading
cycle. All bills shall be due and payable by the fifteenth of the month
succeeding the month in which the bill was rendered. A penalty of $10 shall be
added to all bills not paid by such date.
   (B)   Person responsible for payment. The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the sewer service shall be jointly and
severally liability to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village.
   (C)   Delayed payment agreements. The village may, in the discretion of
Chair of Committee on Sewer and Water, enter into a delayed payment agreement
with respect to any delinquent bill. Failure to comply with such agreement
shall subject the premises to the lien and termination of service provisions
provided for in this chapter.
   (D)   Application of water service deposit. When water service is
terminated, if there remains any outstanding bills or charges for sewer
services rendered, then the water service deposit or that portion of the water
service deposit as is necessary shall be applied to pay such bills or charges,
including any penalty fees that may have accrued.
   (E)   When a water service deposit has been drawn down to satisfy a sewer
service arrearage as provided in division (D) above, the owner of the premises,
the occupant thereof, and the user, if different, shall be notified promptly
through the United States Mail Service sent to the premises served by such
sewer service and at the address at which the applicant and owner have
registered with the village with respect to water service, if different. This
notice shall specify the amount of the water service deposit having been
applied to satisfy sewer arrearages, the remaining amount of the water service
deposit or any remaining amounts due for sewer services for which the water
service deposit was insufficient to satisfy in full.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
§ 52.17 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Any person responsible for the sewer bill may dispute the sewer bill.
   (B)   The procedure for resolving the dispute shall be the same as the
procedure established by the village for disputing bills for water service.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Disputing water bills, see §
51.18
§ 52.18 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Bills not paid on or before the fifteenth of the month succeeding the
month in which the bill was rendered shall be considered delinquent. The
village shall send a re-billing statement with the $10 penalty to the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the sewer service, at the
address of the premises and at the address at which the applicant and owner
have registered with the village with respect to water service, if different.
Such rebilling statement shall also include a notice stating that if the re-
billing is not paid by the twenty-fifth of the month succeeding the month in
which the initial bill was rendered then the delinquent charges may create a
lien on the premises pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   If the re-billing is not paid by the twenty-fifth of the month
succeeding the month in which the initial bill was rendered, the delinquent
bill may constitute a lien upon the premises for which sewer service is
supplied. The Village Clerk be and is hereby authorized and directed to file
with the County Recorder of Deeds a notice of lien upon the premises. The
filing of such statement shall be deemed notice of the lien for said sewer
service.
      (2)   This notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a legal
description of the premises served, the amount of money due for sewer service,
including recording fees and the costs of verifying the legal description on
the premises on which such lien is attached, and the date when such amount
became delinquent. Premises subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be
foreclosed in the manner as provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed by this chapter, the day of the
act or event from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not
be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless
it is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday. When
the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
§ 52.20 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
§ 52.21 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
§ 52.22 REVENUES.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the wastewater system
shall be deposited in the sewer account of the sewer fund. All such revenues
and monies shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of the village
and all of the said sums, without any deductions whatever, shall be deposited
into the water and sewer account not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Village Board. The Village Treasurer shall administer such funds in
every respect in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
§ 52.23 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall
include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.24 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the village which are applicable to the village system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
insure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
state grant.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense and shall
also be subject to the termination of services provision of this chapter. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-1-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF THE ROAD
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND LICENSES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
75.   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
      
76.   PEDESTRIANS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Illinois Vehicle Code
   
70.01   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.02   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Application to animals or bicycles
   
70.16   Exemptions to provisions
   
70.17   Police authority
   
70.18   Traffic signs and signals
Vehicle Seizure and Impoundment
   
70.30   Vehicles subject to seizure and impoundment
   
70.31   Administrative fee for towed and impounded vehicles
   
70.32   Procedure for seizure and impoundment of vehicles
   
70.33   Notice and opportunity for hearing
   
70.34   Release of vehicle
   
70.35   Administrative review
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context or purposes thereof, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5, as amended, are by
reference hereby adopted as ordinance definitions, requirements, regulations,
prohibitions, provisions and sections of the village vehicle code. Any and all
violations of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, shall be considered
violations of this section and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to the penalty provisions of this section; and the section numbers of
the Illinois Vehicle Code are hereby adopted as section numbers of this code
and may be cited as such.
   (B)   Ratification. Except as modified or changed herein, all village
ordinances heretofore adopted and/or amended that are still in full force and
effect, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 2010-09, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the definitions contained in the Illinois
Vehicle Code, are incorporated herein by reference so far as applicable and
except as otherwise expressly provided hereinafter; and the words and phrases
used in this title shall have the meanings therein ascribed to them
respectively. The following words and phrases shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them for the purposes of this title. For the purpose of
this title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The closely built up portion of the village.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the police or fire department; ambulances;
any vehicle conveying a village official or employee in response to any
official emergency call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical or compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life and limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flashpoint of 70°F or less, as
determined by a Tagliabue, or equivalent closed cup test.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick asphalt, macadam or gravel.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LANED ROADWAY. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular travel.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partly composed of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electricity obtained from overhead wires, but not operated on
rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every vehicle, with a motor, having a saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether or not occupied and whether or not the
ignition is locked or the key removed therefrom, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Any tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the village, or by any town, county,
park or school district, or other municipality, the state or the United States.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The closely built up residence portion of the village.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently
or as a part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
   SAFETY ZONE. That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET. Every way set aside for travel except footpaths.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of the village other than the closely built
up business or residence districts.
   TRAFFIC. Vehicles using any street for travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and the load so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles, but not including
perambulators or toy vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 APPLICATION TO ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except to those provisions which can
have no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.16 EXEMPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to emergency vehicles while the driver thereof is engaged in
the performance of emergency duties. Nor shall such provisions apply to persons
engaged in repairing or otherwise improving the streets under authority of the
Village Board or of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 70.17 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the Chief of Police to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.18 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Obedience required. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the Village Board or in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (B)   Light signals.
      (1)   Whenever traffic at an intersection is regulated by the type of
signal commonly known as a stop and go signal, the following colors shall
indicate the following commands.
         (a)   RED. Requires that traffic faced by this color shall stop and
remain standing.
         (b)   GREEN. Requires that traffic faced by this color shall move and
continue to move, except when stopped for the purpose of avoiding an accident
or when stopped at the command of a police officer.
         (c)   AMBER or YELLOW. Indicates preparation for a change in the
direction of traffic movement.
      (2)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection. When a yellow
lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may
proceed into the intersection only with caution.
   (C)   Interference with signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to
deface, injure, move or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
   (D)   Unauthorized signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
maintain or display any device, other than official warning or direction signs
or signals authorized by statute or ordinance, upon or in view of any street,
if such device purports to be or is an imitation of any official warning or
direction sign or signal, or directs or purports to direct traffic. Any such
unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be removed by
any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.30 VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   A motor vehicle used in the commission of any of the following violations or
offenses may be seized and impounded by the city:
   (A)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961, being 720 ILCS 5/36-
1;
   (B)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501;
   (C)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being
720 ILCS 550;
   (D)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570;
   (E)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5 or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961, being 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 and 720 ILCS 5/
24-3.1 respectively;
   (F)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that vehicles shall not be
subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation
(parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing;
   (G)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act, being 720 ILCS 550, or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570;
   (H)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license,
in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-101,
if the period of expiration is greater than one year;
   (I)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver’s license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-101, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having
been issued a driver’s license or permit due to a person’s age;
   (J)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in the state for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated §§ 6-101, 6-303 or 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 625 ILCS 5/6-303 and 625 5/11-501 respectively;
   (K)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 of the Criminal Code
of 1961, being 720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et seq.; or
   (L)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961, being 720 ILCS 5.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR TOWED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The registered owner or the agent or agents of the owner shall be liable to
the village for an administrative fee of $350, in addition to any and all
applicable fines, costs, towing and storage fees. The administrative fee shall
be collected by and paid to the village. Additional towing or storage fees, or
both, shall be collected by and paid to the person, firm or entity that tows
and stores the vehicle impounded under this chapter or to the village for
payment to the appropriate person or entity. The administrative fee provided
for in this section shall be waived by the village upon submission of
verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time that the vehicle was
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 70.32 PROCEDURE FOR SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever a village police officer reasonably believes that the driver of a
motor vehicle has committed an eligible offense as enumerated in §
70.30, the officer may provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to the
village impound lot or a village approved private lot.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 70.33 NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING.
   At the time that a motor vehicle is towed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the village shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the
owner, lessee, agent or agents, or person identifying himself or herself as the
owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of
the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the following:
   (A)   The fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s or the lessee’s
right to an administrative hearing;
   (B)   The notice shall also provide that the seized motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or a lienholder, posts with the village a
bond equal to the administrative fee as set forth in this chapter and pays all
towing and storage charges;
   (C)   (1)   The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder
of record shall also be provided with a written notice of administrative
hearing.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party’s
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
         (b)   Be served upon such interested parties within ten days after
impoundment of a vehicle by the village; and
         (c)   Contain a date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
      (3)   An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45
days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (D)   (1)   All administrative hearings conducted pursuant to this chapter
shall be conducted by a hearing officer who is an attorney licensed to practice
law in the state for a minimum of three years.
      (2)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment.
         (a)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle as set forth below shall be forfeited to the village.
         (b)   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis
for the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee
or lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
         (c)   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage
facility within 30 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a
written decision shall be deemed abandoned and may be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5-201 et seq., or as elsewhere provided for in this code.
         (d)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fee
imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the administrative
review law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-4) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 70.34 RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Motor vehicles seized and impounded under this subchapter shall remain
impounded until all costs associated with the towing and storage of the motor
vehicle are paid.
   (B)   The registered owner, lessee or lienholder of the vehicle remits the
administrative fee to the Village Police Department. The Village Police
Department shall have the right to hold the vehicle until the costs associated
with towing, storage and the administrative fee have been paid in full or until
the motor vehicle is released as a result of the administrative review process,
or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-5) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 70.35 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be subject
to review under the provisions of the administrative review law.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-6) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-15-2012)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF THE ROAD
Section
   
71.01   Use of liquor or drugs
   
71.02   Accident reports
   
71.03   Driver’s signals
   
71.04   Turning movements
   
71.05   Driving from alleys, driveways or garages
   
71.06   Right-of-way
   
71.07   Driving on the right
   
71.08   Overtaking vehicles
   
71.09   Speed restrictions
   
71.10   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
71.11   Snowmobile route
§ 71.01 USE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person or any person under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of a narcotic
drug, to operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle which has collided
with any vehicle, person or property, in such a manner as to cause injury or
damage, to fail or refuse to stop immediately, to render such assistance as may
be possible, to give his or her true name and residence to the injured person
or the owner of the property damaged, and to a police officer if one is
present.
   (B)   A report of each such accident shall be given by the driver of each
vehicle concerned in it to the Chief of Police within 24 hours after the
accident.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 DRIVER’S SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
      (2)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the
hand and arm signal or by a signal lamp or other signal device, but when a
vehicle is so constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be
visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be
given by such a lamp or device.
   (B)   All signals herein required, given by hand and arm, shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals
shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   LEFT TURN. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      (2)   RIGHT TURN. Hand and arm extended upward or moved with a sweeping
motion from the rear to the front.
      (3)   STOP OR DECREASE SPEED. Hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Left turns. The driver of any vehicle intending to turn to the left at
an intersection or into any alley or driveway shall approach the point of
turning in the traffic lane nearest the center of the roadway.
   (B)   Right turns. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at
any intersection shall approach the point of turning in the traffic lane
nearest the right hand edge or curb of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving into a sidewalk or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, sound the horn of said vehicle, and
shall exercise extreme care in driving said vehicle upon said sidewalk or
across such line.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Subject to the section on exemptions in this title, the driver of a vehicle
shall give the right-of-way to the driver of a vehicle approaching along an
intersecting street from the right, and shall have the right- of-way over those
approaching from the left.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT.
   Any driver of a vehicle, upon meeting another vehicle, shall turn to the
right side of the roadway as far as may be necessary in order to avoid
collision with such vehicle. Further provided, that it shall be unlawful to
operate any vehicle upon the left hand side of any roadway except when
necessary because of obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   Any driver of a vehicle, upon overtaking another vehicle, shall pass on the
left side of the overtaken vehicle. The driver of an overtaken vehicle shall
give way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any public highway or street at
a speed greater than 30 mph within the corporate limits of the village unless
otherwise posted. In areas posted with a lesser speed limit, no person shall
drive any vehicle on any street or public highway within said area at a speed
greater than posted. If a vehicle exceeds the speed restrictions set forth
herein, such a rate of speed shall be prima facie evidence that the person
operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of speed greater than is
reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and use of the way or so as
to endanger life or limb or injure the property of any person.
   (B)   The fact that the speed of the vehicle is lower than the foregoing
prima facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon a narrow or
winding roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle, or
on entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all pedestrians to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) (Ord. 2004-26, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Driving on safety zones. No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any
sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time
into or upon any portion of a roadway marked as a safety zone.
   (B)   Following fire apparatus. Upon the sounding of gongs or warning
devices used upon fire apparatus or fire patrol vehicles, drivers shall draw
their vehicles as near to the right hand curb as is reasonably possible and
shall remain standing until such fire apparatus has passed. It shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, to
follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm closer than one block, or
to park any vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped to
answer a fire alarm.
   (C)   Driving over fire hose. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle to drive over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the
consent of the Fire Chief or the assistant in command.
   (D)   Reckless driving. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the
village in a reckless or wanton manner or so as to unnecessarily endanger life
or property.
   (E)   Careless operation of vehicles. No person shall operate any motor
vehicle in a careless or heedless manner within the limits of the village.
   (F)   Obstructing traffic. No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain
upon any street in such a manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the
traffic thereon.
   (G)   Riding bicycles and motorcycles. It shall be unlawful for more than
one person to ride upon any bicycle propelled by human power upon any street,
or for any person to ride upon any motorcycle other than upon a seat attached
to said vehicle.
   (H)   Unattended vehicles. No vehicle shall be left unattended while the
motor is running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or
incline unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (I)   Unattended animals. It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other
draft animal unattended in any street without having such animal securely
fastened.
   (J)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person on any
street riding a bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle, to cling to or attach
himself or herself or his or her vehicle to any moving vehicle or wagon.
   (K)   Toy vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a
coaster, sled or other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a
crosswalk.
   (L)   Riding on running boards. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride
upon the fender, running board or outside step of any vehicle.
   (M)   Pushing snow into lanes of traffic. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow snow to be pushed into and remain in the lanes of traffic after
a snow accumulation of two or more inches of snowfall.
   (N)   Snow accumulation or transportation onto village property. It shall be
unlawful for any person to transport and/or accumulate snow onto any village
property without permission of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12) (Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 SNOWMOBILE ROUTE.
   (A)   The following described route being on private property along the
abandoned railroad bed at the north village limits proceeding to Green Street
west to Ash Avenue south on Ash Avenue to Marathon Station for fuel. The trail
would then proceed south on Ash Avenue to State Street, turning east onto State
Street one block to the parking lot of Anderson Trucking or Moring Disposal,
then proceeding south to the Mobil Station for fuel north from the Mobil
Station, proceeding west on State Street one block, then proceeding north on
Ash Avenue to the Forreston Township lot proceeding west through the lot across
Route 26 (N. Walnut Avenue) onto White Oak Road to the alley between 1st and
2nd Avenue, proceeding south through the alley two blocks to reach the lot on
the south side of the business located at 220 1st Avenue. In the event the
owners of the private property described in the above route now or in the
future do not grant their consent for the use of their property for a
snowmobile route, the following shall be the alternate route: North Locust
Avenue at the north village limits proceeding to Avon Street west to Ash Avenue
to Marathon Station for fuel proceeding south on Ash Avenue to the Forreston
Township lot proceeding west through the lot across Route 26 (N. Walnut Avenue)
onto White Oak Road to the alley between 1st and 2nd Avenue proceeding south
through the alley two blocks to reach the lot on the south side of the business
located at 220 1st Avenue. The above described trails are hereby approved by
the village, and shall be the only route upon which snowmobiles may enter and
exit the village limits.
   (B)   Snowmobilers who live within the village shall be allowed to ride the
shortest direct route to the above described village designated route.
   (C)   No snowmobile shall be operated in excess of 15 mph.
   (D)   No snowmobile shall be operated in a careless or negligent manner or
so as to endanger the safety of any person or the property of any other person.
   (E)   Each person operating a snowmobile shall observe all traffic signs and
signals and all other rules and regulations applying to traffic within the
village.
   (F)   The crossing of any street or highway shall be made at an angle of 90
degrees to the direction of the highway or street. The snowmobile shall be
brought to a complete stop prior to crossing a street or highway.
   (G)   No snowmobile shall be operated on any private portion of the
aforedescribed snowmobile route without the prior consent of the property
owner. Said consent shall be placed on file with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) (Ord. 99-2, passed 1-4-1999; Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-2-
2004; Ord. 2008-15, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND LICENSES
Section
   
72.01   Weight of vehicles
   
72.02   Equipment, condition of vehicles
§ 72.01 WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including the weight of the load, in excess of that permitted by the state
traffic law for driving on improved highways or with weight distributed in a
manner not conforming to such law; except that in the residence district, no
vehicle having a gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of
such vehicle shall exceed 9,000 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 EQUIPMENT, CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Clear vision. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded or in such a condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of
all parts of the roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any
vehicle which is constructed or loaded so that the driver’s view of the roadway
to the rear is obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him or her a view of the roadway behind.
   (B)   Unnecessary noises. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon the
street which makes an unusually loud or unnecessary noise.
   (C)   Horn. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working order. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of the
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger. No motor vehicle other
than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a siren or gong signaling
device.
   (D)   Gas and smoke. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits
dense clouds of gas and smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of
persons or as to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
   (E)   Brakes. It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any street
unless such motor vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good
working condition, as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any
vehicle which is so loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the
mechanism operating the brakes of such vehicle.
   (F)   Muffler. No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such
vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient working condition; and the use
of a cutout is prohibited.
   (G)   Lights. It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any
vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of
state law.
   (H)   Tires. It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle
which is not equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state
traffic law.
   (I)   Sound amplification; unlawful levels. It shall be unlawful for any
person in possession of a motor vehicle to operate said vehicle wherein the
operation of any sound amplification system can be heard outside the vehicle
from 75 or more feet when the vehicle is being operated upon a highway or
street, unless such system is being operated to request assistance or warn of a
hazardous situation.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   No parking restrictions
   
73.02   Time limit parking
   
73.03   Curb parking; parking on streets with no curb
   
73.04   Parking vehicles for sale
   
73.05   Overnight parking
   
73.06   Parking during snow removal operations
   
73.07   Parking in loading zones
   
73.08   Truck tractor and/or semitrailer parking
   
73.09   Truck parking restricted
   
73.10   Trailers, campers and boats on streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 NO PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful at any time to permit any vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other vehicles or in compliance with the
direction of traffic police officers or signals, to stand in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On any street, except in designated parking spaces;
   (B)   In any intersection;
   (C)   In a crosswalk;
   (D)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or the approach thereto;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal or a through street sign on the
approaching side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle reduces the usable width
of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   At any curb within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
50 feet of said entrance;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
curb or street;
   (L)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
   (M)   In any area designated by the village as a safety zone as evidenced by
a yellow painted curb;
   (N)   In any residential yard; and
   (O)   On any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-
21-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   The part of the village designated to be limited parking zones by the Board
of Trustees, and posted as such, shall be limited parking zones, and no vehicle
shall be parking in any such limited parking zone for a longer time than
designated.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 CURB PARKING; PARKING ON STREETS WITH NO CURB.
   (A)   Parking on streets with curb.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle at
the curb or curb line.
      (2)   It is unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb or curb line and with the two right wheels of the
vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established right hand of the curb
line or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right shoulder, except
upon those streets which have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be
parked at the curb at the angle indicated by such marks.
   (B)   Parking on streets with no curb.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked on the shoulder of any street unless it
has been finished with gravel, asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   It is unlawful to stand or park any vehicle on the shoulder of any
street other than parallel with said shoulder.
      (3)   No vehicle shall be parked against the direction of traffic.
      (4)   There shall be no “side-by-side” parking. For purposes of
clarification, “side-by-side” parking shall include, but not be limited to, the
parking of any vehicle adjacent and parallel to the left side of any parked
vehicle on the same side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) (Ord. 2008-11, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street of the village more
than 48 consecutive hours.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any public
street in the village at any time after a snowfall of two inches or more has
accumulated, or following a declaration of a snow emergency by the Village
President, unless the snow has been plowed or otherwise removed from the street
in the areas surrounding all sides of the parked vehicle except:
      (1)   Vehicles may be parked on the north and west side of the street
where the even numbered buildings are or would be located between the hours of
7:00 a.m. of that day and 7:00 a.m. of the following day on even calendar days;
and
      (2)   Vehicles may be parked on the south and east side of the street
where the odd numbered buildings are or would be located between the hours of
7:00 a.m. of that day and 7:00 a.m. of the following day on odd calendar days.
   (B)   Following a snowfall of two inches or more, or a declaration of a snow
emergency by the Village President, no vehicle shall be parked on the following
streets between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.:
Street Restricted Area
Street        Restricted Area
Ash Street    Between State Street and Main Street
Balsam Street Between 1st Avenue and the alley between 1st Avenue and 2nd
              Avenue
Cherry Street Between 1st Avenue and Walnut Avenue
1st Avenue    Between State Street and Cherry Street
Main Street   Between 1st Avenue and Walnut Avenue
Oak Avenue    West side between State Street and Avon Street
Plum Avenue   East side between State Street and Avon Street
Walnut Avenue Between State Street and Cherry Street
 
   (C)   The Police Department has the authority to tow away any vehicle in
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 PARKING IN LOADING ZONES.
   During the times specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for longer than is necessary to load or
unload passengers, not to exceed three minutes; and for the driver to stand any
freight carrying vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load,
unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in any of the following
places:
   (A)   In any public alley during any hour of the day or night; and
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 TRUCK TRACTOR AND/OR SEMITRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall park or stand any
truck tractor and/or semitrailer upon any street or alley in any residential
district of the village for more than a cumulative total of 60 minutes in any
calendar day.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park or allow to be parked any truck trailer
and/or semitrailer in any front yard in any residential district of the village
except upon a regularly constructed residential driveway.
      (2)   The parking of said vehicle(s) shall not block any public sidewalk
or portion thereof.
   (C)   No person shall permit the engine of any truck tractor and/or
semitrailer to run in a residential district of the village for cumulative
total of 30 minutes per calendar day.
   (D)   Truck tractors and/or semitrailers owned and/or operated by the
village, any service business, manufacturer, utility, company and the like
which are performing a service to a specific property located in a residential
district of the village shall be permitted to park upon the street or alley in
said district for such times as is necessary to complete its particular
business or mission.
   (E)   The units to which the restrictions apply are truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, vehicles with a gross weight rating in excess of 24,000
pounds, camping trailers, any other trailer or any equipment that is towed.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-8) (Ord. 2010-08, passed 8-2-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   General restrictions. No person shall allow any truck or trailer truck
owned or driven by him or her to be parked, with or without occupants therein,
upon any street in any residential district of the village for a period of time
longer than 60 minutes within one 24-hour period; excepting however, service
trucks or trailers representing business, manufacturing or utility companies
servicing residences within the particular residential district, which trucks
or trailers shall be permitted to park in the district for a period of time
long enough to take care of the particular business or mission occupying its
time, and no longer.
   (B)   Restrictions in residential districts and residences within business
districts.
      (1)   Limited parking. All vehicles with an Illinois state license plate
of higher than a “B” classification (or an out of state equivalent) as defined
in 625 ILCS 5/3-815 or of a height of 90 inches or more are prohibited from
parking or being stored on any premises zoned as a residential district, on any
premises used solely as a residence within any business district or on any
street in a residential district or street abutting a residential district for
more than two hours, other than in a completely enclosed garage, except for and
during the time said vehicle is making a delivery, being loaded or unloaded, or
rendering a service at such premises or on such street. Except as provided
above, it shall be unlawful for any person to use property in a residential
district or property used solely as a residence within a business district for
the storage of said vehicles, even though said vehicle shall be owned or
operated by the owner of said property, and such storage shall not constitute
or be construed as the making of a delivery or the rendering of a service, and
shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational type vehicles, including, but
not limited to, camping trucks or trailers, shall not be parked in any front
yard, except upon a regularly constructed residential driveway. However, upon
notification to the Police Department, owners of recreational type vehicles may
park their vehicle in their front yard for a period not to exceed 48 hours for
loading or unloading.
      (3)   Operation of refrigeration units. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate or permit to operate, or for the owner of any premises to
operate or permit to operate, the engine, motor or refrigeration unit of any
second division vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-217, for a period in excess
of 15 minutes while said unattended vehicle is loading, unloading, parked or
stationary during the hours of 8:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. the following day in
all residential zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10) (Ord. 2015-20, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 TRAILERS, CAMPERS AND BOATS ON STREETS.
   (A)   Any trailers, pickup campers and boats. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PICKUP CAMPER. A camper body capable of being loaded onto or unloaded
from or to the bed of a truck.
      TRAILER. Any wheeled vehicle without motor power and designated to be
drawn by a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Attached or detached, left standing. No trailer shall be detached from
a towing vehicle and left standing in any public right-of-way.
   (C)   Unloaded, left standing. No pickup camper shall be unloaded from a
truck and left standing in any public right-of-way.
   (D)   Boats. No boat, whether resting on a trailer or standing by itself,
shall be left standing on any public right-of-way, whether or not attached
physically to a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11) (Ord. 2015-20, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no penalty is provided shall be fined $50 for each violation. If not paid, the
fine increases to $100 on the fourteenth day from the date of violation, $200
on the thirtieth day from the date of violation, $450 on the thirty-fifth day
from the date of violation, $750 on the sixtieth day from the date of violation
and court proceedings shall follow.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-9)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
73.06 shall be fined $50 for each violation plus towing expenses.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6)
   (C)   Any violation of §
73.09(B) shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine of not less than $50
nor more than $750. Any and each violation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10)
   (D)   Any violation of §
73.10 shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $750. Any and each violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11)
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2010-08, passed 8-2-2010; Ord. 2015-20,
passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-21-
2023)
CHAPTER 74: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
74.03   Police authorized to tow vehicles
   
74.04   Storing, parking or leaving dismantled motor vehicles prohibited;
nuisance declared; exceptions
   
74.05   Unlicensed vehicles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a vehicle or in the event a vehicle
is the subject of an agreement for conditional sale or lease thereof with the
right of purchase upon the performance of the conditions stated in the
agreement and with the immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such vehicle is entitled to
possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed
the owner for the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) (Ord. 85-7, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 74.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   A person commits abandonment of a vehicle when he or she is the owner of a
vehicle that is within the village limits and that:
   (A)   Is left unattended and is creating a traffic hazard or nuisance
because of its position in relation to the highway;
   (B)   Is left unattended and its physical appearance is causing the
impedance of traffic;
   (C)   Is left unattended upon any public way and is parked illegally and in
violation of the law;
   (D)   Is occupying any portion of a street or alley in violation of a
limited parking zone for a vehicle of five times the permitted parking time;
   (E)   Has not been moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is
apparently deserted;
   (F)   Is in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being
driven in its condition and is apparently deserted; and
   (G) That is left unattended upon private property without the property
owner’s consent.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) (Ord. 85-7, passed 8-5-1985) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 POLICE AUTHORIZED TO TOW VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to
remove and tow away or to direct a commercial towing service to tow away any
vehicle in violation of this chapter, or that may be lost, stolen or unclaimed.
   (B)   Towed vehicles shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed
of in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/4-201 to 5/4-214.
   (C)   (1)   When a vehicle removal from a public property is authorized by a
police officer, the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for the towing
costs and storage fees.
      (2)   When a vehicle removal from a private property is authorized by a
police officer, the owner of the vehicle or the owner of the property from
which the vehicle has been removed will be responsible for all towing costs and
storage fees.
      (3)   The aforereferenced costs shall be in addition to any fine levied
for violation of this chapter. The towing company shall be permitted to retain
the vehicle until all reasonable commercial towing and storage fees are paid.
   (D)   All towed vehicles shall first be searched for valuables and the
contents inventoried.
   (E)   In any event any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any
vehicle upon any public way, members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to remove or relocate any such vehicle from one location to any
other location.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3) (Ord. 85-7, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 2004-32, passed 12-20-
2004) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED;
NUISANCE DECLARED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing
or leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled condition
whether attended or not upon any property within the village for a period of
time in excess of 72 hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on
private property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within a
building on private property or to any vehicle held in connection with a
business enterprise, actually operated with an office on the subject premises
and properly operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning
laws of the village, provided that said vehicle which is inoperable, dismantled
or partially dismantled as a result of repair or maintenance work being
performed by said business shall be operable within 14 days.
      (3)   Further, this section shall not apply to any vehicle which is
inoperative, dismantled or partially dismantled as a result of repair or
maintenance work being performed by the owner of said vehicle on the owner’s
property, provided that said owner shall have the vehicle operable within 14
days.
   (B)   Notice to remove. Whenever it comes to the attention of the health
inspector that any nuisance as defined in division (A) above exists in the
village, a notice in writing shall be served upon the occupant of the land
where the nuisance exists, or in case there is no such occupant, then upon the
owner of the property or his or her agent, notifying them of the existence of
the nuisance and requesting its removal in the time specified in this chapter.
   (C)   Responsibility for removal. Upon proper notice and opportunity to be
heard, the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle
and the owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located,
either or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the village, the owner or occupant of the private
property where same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   (D)   Notice procedure. The Police Chief or the Police Chief’s designee of
the village shall give notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the
private property where it is located at least five days before the time of
compliance. It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of same is posted
in a conspicuous place upon the private property on which the vehicle is
located and duplicate copies are sent by registered mail to the owner or
occupant of the private property at his or her last known address.
   (E)   Content of notice. The notice shall contain the request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the village or its designee
may undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the
owner or occupant of the property.
   (F)   Request for hearing. The persons to whom the notices are directed, or
their duly authorized agents, may file a written request for hearing before the
Public Safety Committee of the Village Board of Trustees within the five-day
period of compliance prescribed in division (D) above for the purpose of
defending the charges by the village.
   (G)   Procedure for hearing. The hearing shall be held as soon as
practicable after the filing of the request and the persons to whom the notices
are directed shall be advised of the time and place of said hearing at least
three days in advance thereof. At any such hearing the village and the persons
to whom the notices have been directed may introduce such witnesses and
evidence as either party deems necessary.
   (H)   Removal of motor vehicles from property. If the violation described in
the notice has not been remedied within the five-day period of compliance, or
in the event that a notice requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing is
had, and the existence of the violation is affirmed by the Public Safety
Committee, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the right to
take possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove it from the premises. It
shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow
such person or persons to enter upon private property for the purpose of
removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Notice of removal. Within 48 hours of the removal of such vehicle, the
Chief of Police shall give notice to the registered owner of the vehicle, if
known, and also to the owner or occupant of the private property from which the
vehicle was removed that said vehicle, or vehicles, has been impounded and
stored for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give the location of
where the vehicle, or vehicles, is stored and the costs incurred by the village
for removal.
   (J)   Disposition of vehicles. Removed vehicles shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/4-201 and 5/4-
214.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4) (Ord. 85-7, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 2004-33, passed 12-20-
2004; Ord. 2004-34, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-2005) Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.05 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave any unlicensed motor vehicle on any street or highway
within the village. No person in charge of or in control of any property within
the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall
allow any unlicensed motor vehicle to remain on such property longer than seven
days. No person shall leave any such motor vehicle on any property within the
village for a longer time than seven days; except that this section shall not
apply with regard to a motor vehicle in an enclosed building or to any held in
conjunction with a licensed business enterprise licensed by the state as a
licensed dealer of vehicles provided said unlicensed vehicles are operable and
not in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, rusted, junked or partially
dismantled condition and the business is operated in the appropriate business
zone, pursuant to the zoning laws of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5) (Ord. 2004-35, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, not
subject to another penalty, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than
$750. Each day there is a violation of any of the provisions hereof shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-6)
   (B)   Violation of §
74.02 is a petty offense and upon conviction thereof shall be a fine in an
amount of not less than $50 nor more than $500, and the owner shall be required
to make disposition on the vehicle. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. A person is
absolutely liable for the conduct described without regard to having a mental
state.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) (Ord. 85-7, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 2004-34, passed 12-20-
2004)
CHAPTER 75: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Operation of non-highway and low speed vehicles
   
75.02   Definitions
   
75.03   Regulation of non-highway vehicles
   
75.04   Regulation of low speed vehicles
   
75.05   Insurance requirements
   
75.06   Seat belts required
   
75.07   Permit required
   
75.08   Suspension or revocation of permit
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES.
   The use of non-highway and low-speed vehicles on the roadways of the village
shall be permissible subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020)
§ 75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more
non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and
handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as
lawnmowers.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. Any four-wheeled vehicle with a maximum speed greater
than 20 mph but not greater than 25 mph that conforms with the federal motor
vehicle safety standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
   NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE. A self-propelled, electric-powered, four-wheeled motor
vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline-powered, four-wheeled motor vehicle with
an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) that is capable of
attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 mph, but not more than 25 mph,
and which does not conform to federal regulations under 49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a public
highway, including:
         (a)   A golf cart;
         (b)   A neighborhood vehicle; and
         (c)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (UTV).
      (2)   The definition of NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE shall not include an off-
highway motorcycle and an all-terrain vehicle (ATV).
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Any motorized device designed to travel primarily
off highway on two wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator,
upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported or drawn.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (UTV). Any motorized off-highway device
designed to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   ROADWAY(S). Any streets, roadways and alleys within the village limits.
ROADWAYS shall not include the sidewalks, parking lots and other similar
surfaces located within the village limits. ROADWAYS shall also not include any
highway under the jurisdiction of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020)
§ 75.03 REGULATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   All non-highway vehicles shall be operated only on roadways where the
posted speed limit is 35 mph or less. The foregoing provision shall not
prohibit a non-highway vehicle from crossing a roadway at an intersection where
the roadway has a posted speed limit of more than 35 mph. Off-highway
motorcycles and all-terrain vehicles (ATV) are not permitted on any roadways.
   (B)   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any roadway unless
he or she has a valid driver’s license issued in his or her name by the
Illinois Secretary of State or such other applicable foreign jurisdiction and
has attained the age of 18 years.
   (C)   (1)   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct
crossing upon or across a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct crossing upon
or across any tollroad, interstate highway, or controlled access highway in
this state.
      (2)   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct
crossing upon or across any other highway under the jurisdiction of the state
except at an intersection of the highway with another roadway.
   (D)   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview
mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving
emblem (as required of other vehicles in § 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/12-709) on the real-of the non-highway vehicle, a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a
tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear,
brake lights, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a non-highway
vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by § 12-201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
   (E)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a non-highway
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to §§ 11-500 through
11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-500 and 625 ILCS 5/11-
502, and all other applicable laws.
   (F)   The operation of a non-highway vehicle upon any roadway is subject to
the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-
100 et seq., concerning the Rules of the Road and all applicable village
ordinances, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020; Ord. 2020-07, passed 7-6-2020) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 REGULATION OF LOW SPEED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Low-speed vehicles shall be operated only on roadways where the posted
speed limit is 35 mph or less. Low-speed vehicles may cross a roadway at an
intersection where the street being crossed has a posted speed limit of not
more than 45 mph. Low-speed vehicles may not cross a street with a speed limit
in excess of 45 mph unless the crossing is at an intersection controlled by a
traffic light or four-way stop sign.
   (B)   (1)   No low-speed vehicle may be operated on any roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: a parking brake, a steering apparatus, tires, a
windshield that conforms to the federal vehicle safety standards on glazing
materials as set forth in 49 C.F.R. Part 571.205, a vehicle identification
number, seat belts, a rearview mirror, an exterior rearview mirror mounted on
the driver’s side of the vehicle, red reflectorized warning devices on each
rear side and one on the center rear of the vehicle, a headlight that emits a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a tail lamp that
emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear, brake lights,
and front and rear turn signals.
      (2)   When operated on a roadway, a low-speed vehicle shall have its
headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by § 12-201 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/12-201. The low-speed vehicle shall also have a
village decal permanently and conspicuously affixed to the front windshield of
the vehicle (preferred) or left front fender if vehicle does not have a
windshield.
   (C)   A person may not operate a low-speed vehicle upon any roadway unless
he or she has a valid driver’s license issued in his or her name by the
Illinois Secretary of State or such other applicable foreign jurisdiction and
has attained the age of 18 years.
   (D)   The operation of a low-speed vehicle upon any roadway is subject to
the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-
100 et seq., concerning the Rules of the Road and all applicable village
ordinances, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a low-speed
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to §§ 11-500 through
11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-500 and 625 ILCS 5/11-
502, and all other applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020; Ord. 2020-07, passed 7-6-2020) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who operates a non-highway or low-speed vehicle on a roadway of
the village shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under
Article VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/7-601 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-5) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020)
§ 75.06 SEAT BELTS REQUIRED.
   During the operation of a non-highway or low-speed vehicle, the operator and
all passengers shall wear a seatbelt.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-6) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a non-highway or low-speed vehicle on
the village roadways without first obtaining a three-year permit from the
village as provided herein.
      (2)   The cost of the permit shall be $75. Every non-highway or low-speed
vehicle shall be required to have a permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of insurance carrier and policy number and/or a photocopy of
applicable liability insurance coverage card issued specifically for the non-
highway or low-speed vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of the non-highway
or low-speed vehicle; and
      (4)   Such other information as the village may require, including a
release and waiver of liability signed by applicant releasing the village and
its employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless,
including the costs of defense, from any and all claims, penalties, costs,
judgments, settlements or causes of action resulting or arising from the
operation of applicant’s non-highway or low-speed vehicle on village roadways.
   (C)   (1)   The permit decal issued by the village must be displayed on the
non-highway or low-speed vehicle and visible at all times.
      (2)   If the permit decal becomes unrecognizable, the issuance of a new
permit decal will be required for a fee of $25; provided, that the issuance
thereof does not extend the expiration date of the current three-year permit.
   (D)   No permit shall be granted by the village until the non-highway or
low-speed vehicle shall be submitted to and pass an inspection by the Village
Police Chief (or his or her designee) to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (E)   Each person operating a non-highway vehicle or low speed vehicle shall
carry the permit issued by the village at all times during the operation of
said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-7) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding
that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or there is
a finding that the permittee cannot safely operate a non-highway or low-speed
vehicle on village roadways.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-8) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by payment
of a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750, and the village’s
enforcement costs incurred, including its attorney fees, for each offense. Any
second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the village
permit for a period of not less than one nor more than three years. To the
extent that any violation of this chapter may also constitute a violation of a
criminal statute of the state, the violator shall also be subject to criminal
prosecution and all other penalties as permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-8) (Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-
17-2020)
CHAPTER 76: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
76.01   Right-of-way
   
76.02   Use of roadways
   
76.03   Standing on roadways, sidewalks
   
76.04   Pedestrian signals
§ 76.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any
crosswalk without the exercise of due and proper care in view of the special
use made thereof by pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while
there is in such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle
is traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway until such
pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of such vehicle, or when the
pedestrian shall indicate his or her intention to cross.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk
for the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.02 USE OF ROADWAYS.
   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most
direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other than
a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway. No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.03 STANDING ON ROADWAYS, SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand on any sidewalk except
as near as is reasonably possible to the building line or curb, if such
standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.04 PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go sign, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other
than with released traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Alley weight restrictions
      
II.   Through streets
      
III.   U-turn restrictions
      
IV.   No parking areas
      
V.   One-way streets
      
VI.   Stop intersections
      
VII.   School speed zone
      
VIII.   Restricted traffic
SCHEDULE I. ALLEY WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in any alley or alleyway in
the village so designated by ordinance and properly signposted, and it shall be
unlawful to drive any motor vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle on an
emergency call, having a gross weight on the surface of the road in excess of
5,000 pounds, in the following alleys or alleyways. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100.
Restricted Area
Restricted Area
Green Street to Logan Street
East Green to East Avon
East Avon to State Street
Cherry Street to Birch Street
East Elm Street to East Pine Street
East Pine Street to East Willow Street between Garden Avenue and South Walnut
Street
East Pine to East Willow between Garden Avenue and First Street
All alleys between West Pine Street and West Willow Avenue from First Street to
Fifth Avenue
All alleys from West Pine Street to West Balsam Street between Fourth Avenue
and Fifth Avenue
All alleys from West Pine Street to West Cherry Street between Third Avenue and
Fourth Avenue
Between West Pine Street and West Elm Street between 2nd Avenue and Third
Avenue
White Oak Road to Balsam Street between 2nd Avenue and Third Avenue
West Avon Street to West Green Street between Maple Avenue and Church Avenue
Logan Street to Spruce Street between Walnut Avenue and Maple Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby designated and
declared to be through streets:
      (1)   1st Avenue;
      (2)   Walnut Street, from the point of its intersection with 1st Avenue
along State Highway, Route 26;
      (3)   Main Street; and
      (4)   White Oak Road.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting with any
through street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon the through street
unless a go signal is given at such intersection by a traffic officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. U-TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to make a U-turn at the following locations:
   (A)   Corner of 1st Avenue and Balsam Street;
   (B)   Corner of 1st Avenue and Main Street; and
   (C)   Corner of Main and Walnut Streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE IV. NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be prohibited from
parking along the following streets:
Street Restricted Area
Street                                 Restricted Area
Chestnut Avenue                        Between East Avon Street and Main Street
East Avon Street                       North side between North Locust Avenue
                                       and Hickory Avenue
1st Avenue*                            Either side
Main Street (marked Illinois Routes 26 Either side
and 72)*
North Walnut Avenue*                   Either side
Hickory Avenue                         Between East Green and East Avon Street
Locust Avenue                          Within 150 feet of its intersection with
                                       Main Street
Oak Avenue                             Within 150 feet of its intersection with
                                       Main Street
Plum Avenue                            Within 150 feet of its intersection with
                                       Main Street
South Chestnut Avenue                  Within 150 feet south of the
                                       intersection with Main Street
* See division (B) below for exceptions
 
   (B)   (1)   With the following exceptions(*):
         (a)   1st Avenue from North Walnut Avenue to Cherry Street;
         (b)   Main Street from 1st Avenue to Walnut Avenue; and
         (c)   North Walnut Avenue from State Street to Main Street.
      (2)   Parking in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal
parking being hereby expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be so
executed that the wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall be not farther
away from the curb than 12 inches. Parking will not be permitted within the
limits of the intersections of Main Street and North Walnut Avenue, 1st Avenue
and Main Street, 1st Avenue and North Walnut Avenue and North Walnut Avenue and
White Oak Road (County Highway 23).
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. passed 7-2-1973; Ord. 2004-28, passed 12-20-2004;
Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-20-2007; Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 2009-05,
passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016) Penalty, see §
73.99
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets shall be one-way streets, as designated:
 
Street                         One-Way Area
Ash Street                     From State Street to Main Street, for southbound
                               traffic only
                               From South Walnut Street to the alley lying east
Birch Street                   of the Forreston Grade School, for westbound
                               traffic only
The alley east of grade school From Birch Street to Elm Street, for southbound
                               traffic only
 
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) (Ord. passed 10-5-1970; Ord. 99-10, passed 12-6-1999;
Ord. 2004-28, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VI. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as stop intersections:
Streets Restriction
Streets                                 Restriction
Ash Avenue at Avon Street               All vehicles traveling on Avon Street
                                        shall stop at Ash Avenue
Ash Avenue at East Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on East Birch
                                        Street shall stop at Ash Avenue
Ash Avenue at Logan Street              All vehicles traveling on Logan Street
                                        shall stop at Ash Avenue
Ash Avenue at State Street              All vehicles traveling on State Street
                                        shall stop at Ash Avenue
Avon Street at alley between Maple      All vehicles traveling north in alley
Avenue and Walnut Avenue and between    shall stop at Avon Street
White Oak Road and Avon Street
Avon Street at Ash Avenue               All vehicles traveling on Ash Avenue
                                        shall stop at Avon Street
Avon Street at Chestnut Avenue          All vehicles traveling on Chestnut
                                        Avenue shall stop at Avon Street
Chestnut Avenue at State Street         All vehicles traveling on State Street
                                        shall stop at Chestnut Avenue
East Avon Street at North Locust Avenue All vehicles traveling on North Locust
                                        Avenue shall stop at East Avon Street
East Birch Street at South Ash Avenue   All vehicles traveling on South Ash
                                        Avenue shall stop at East Birch Street
East Cherry Street at South Locust      All vehicles traveling on South Locust
Avenue                                  Avenue shall stop at East Cherry Street
East Elm Street at Garden Avenue        All vehicles traveling on Garden Avenue
                                        shall stop at East Elm Street
East Elm Street at South Walnut Avenue  All vehicles traveling on South Walnut
                                        Avenue shall stop at East Elm Street
East Green Street at North Ash Avenue   All vehicles traveling on North Ash
                                        Avenue shall stop at East Green Street
East Willow Street at Garden Avenue     All vehicles traveling on Garden Avenue
                                        shall stop at East Willow Street
East Willow Street at South Walnut      All vehicles traveling on South Walnut
Avenue                                  Avenue shall stop at East Willow Street
Garden Avenue at East Pine Street       All vehicles traveling on East Pine
                                        Street shall stop at Garden Avenue
Logan Street at Maple Avenue            All vehicles traveling south on Maple
                                        Avenue shall stop at Logan Street
Maple Avenue at West Green Street       All vehicles traveling on West Green
                                        Street shall stop at Maple Avenue
Meadows Court at Hill Street            All vehicles traveling on Hill Street
                                        shall stop at Meadows Court
                                        All vehicles traveling on East Avon
North Locust Avenue at East Avon Street Street shall stop at North Locust
                                        Avenue
North Locust Avenue at East Green       All vehicles traveling west on East
Street                                  Green Street shall stop at North Locust
                                        Avenue
North Locust Avenue at State Street     All vehicles traveling on State Street
                                        shall stop at North Locust Avenue
South Ash Avenue at East Cherry Street  All vehicles traveling on East Cherry
                                        Street shall stop at South Ash Avenue
South Locust Avenue at East Cherry      All vehicles traveling on East Cherry
Street                                  Street shall stop at South Locust
                                        Avenue
South Walnut Avenue at East Birch       All vehicles traveling on East Birch
Street                                  Street shall stop at South Walnut
                                        Avenue
South Walnut Avenue at East Cherry      All vehicles traveling on East Cherry
Street                                  Street shall stop at South Walnut
                                        Avenue
South Walnut Avenue at East Cherry      All vehicles traveling on South Walnut
Street                                  Avenue shall stop at East Cherry
                                        Street.
South Walnut Avenue at East Birch       All vehicles traveling on South Walnut
Street                                  Avenue shall stop at East Birch Street
                                        All vehicles traveling on East Pine
South Walnut Avenue at East Pine Street Street shall stop at South Walnut
                                        Avenue
South Walnut Avenue at East Willow      All vehicles traveling on East Willow
Street                                  Street shall stop at South Walnut
                                        Avenue
State Street at Chestnut Avenue         All vehicles traveling on Chestnut
                                        Avenue shall stop at State Street
State Street at North Ash Avenue        All vehicles traveling south on North
                                        Ash Avenue shall stop at State Street
West Green Street at Church Avenue      All vehicles traveling on Church Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Green Street
West Logan Street at Maple Avenue       All vehicles traveling on Maple Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Logan Street
West Willow at Third Avenue             All vehicles traveling on Third Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Willow
White Oak Road at alley between Maple   All vehicles traveling south in alley
Avenue and Walnut Avenue and between    shall stop at White Oak Road
White Oak Road and Avon Street
1st Avenue at West Balsam Street        All vehicles traveling on West Balsam
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
1st Avenue at West Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on West Birch
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
1st Avenue at West Cherry Street        All vehicles traveling on West Cherry
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
1st Avenue at West Elm Street           All vehicles traveling on West Elm
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
1st Avenue at West Pine Street          All vehicles traveling on West Pine
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
1st Avenue at West Willow Street        All vehicles traveling on West Willow
                                        Street shall stop at 1st Avenue
2nd Avenue at West Balsam Street        All vehicles traveling on West Balsam
                                        Street shall stop at 2nd Avenue
2nd Avenue at West Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on West Birch
                                        Street shall stop at 2nd Avenue
2nd Avenue at West Cherry Street        All vehicles traveling on 2nd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Cherry Street
2nd Avenue at West Elm Street           All vehicles traveling on 2nd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Elm Street
2nd Avenue at West Pine Street          All vehicles traveling on West Pine
                                        Street shall stop at 2nd Avenue
2nd Avenue at West Willow Street        All vehicles traveling on 2nd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Willow Street
2nd Avenue at White Oak Street          All vehicles traveling on 2nd Avenue
                                        shall stop at White Oak Street
3rd Avenue at West Balsam Street        All vehicles traveling on 3rd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Balsam Street
3rd Avenue at West Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on 3rd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Birch Street
3rd Avenue at West Cherry Street        All vehicles traveling on West Cherry
                                        Street shall stop at 3rd Avenue
3rd Avenue at West Elm Street           All vehicles traveling on West Elm
                                        Street shall stop at 3rd Avenue
3rd Avenue at West Pine Street          All vehicles traveling on 3rd Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Pine Street
3rd Avenue at White Oak Street          All vehicles traveling on 3rd Avenue
                                        shall stop at White Oak Street
4th Avenue at West Balsam Street        All vehicles traveling on West Balsam
                                        Street shall stop at 4th Avenue
4th Avenue at West Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on West Birch
                                        Street shall stop at 4th Avenue
4th Avenue at West Cherry Street        All vehicles traveling on 4th Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Cherry Street
4th Avenue at West Elm Street           All vehicles traveling on 4th Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Elm Street
4th Avenue at West Pine Street          All vehicles traveling on West Pine
                                        Street shall stop at 4th Avenue
4th Avenue at West Willow Street        All vehicles traveling on 4th Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Willow Street
4th Avenue at White Oak Street          All vehicles traveling on 4th Avenue
                                        shall stop at White Oak Street
5th Avenue at West Balsam Street        All vehicles traveling on West Balsam
                                        Street shall stop at 5th Avenue
5th Avenue at West Birch Street         All vehicles traveling on West Birch
                                        Street shall stop at 5th Avenue
5th Avenue at West Cherry Street        All vehicles traveling on 5th Avenue
                                        shall stop at West Cherry Street
5th Avenue at West Elm Street           All vehicles traveling on West Elm
                                        Street shall stop at 5th Avenue
5th Avenue at West Pine Street          All vehicles traveling on West Pine
                                        Street shall stop at 5th Avenue
5th Avenue at White Oak Street          All vehicles traveling on 5th Avenue
                                        shall stop at White Oak Street
 
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) (Ord. 90-8, passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 92-2, passed 6-15-1992;
Ord. 94-8, passed 11-21-1994; Ord. 96-9, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 97-4, passed 4-
21-1997; Ord. 97-6, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 2001-08, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2004-
12, passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 2005-06, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 2007-06, passed 8-20-
2007; Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2021-07, passed 7-19-2021) Penalty,
see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VII. SCHOOL SPEED ZONE.
   A school speed zone (speed limit of 20 mph on school days when children are
present) is designated in the following area:
 
Street              Restricted Areas
East Elm Street     Between South Walnut Avenue and 1st Avenue
South Walnut Avenue Between Cherry Street and East Elm Street
 
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) (Ord. 97-7, passed 10-20-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VIII. RESTRICTED TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful at any time for any commercial truck, semitractor, bus
or commercial vehicle of any sort to be driven on Ash Avenue between State
Street and Main Street. This restriction shall not apply to garbage trucks,
mail trucks or other vehicles providing commercial service or delivery/pick up
for residents within the restricted area or to owner access to property
adjacent to the restricted area.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-2005) Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
91.   NEGLECTED WEEDS, GRASS, TREES AND BUSHES
      
92.   FIRE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
      
93.   TREES AND SHRUBBERY
      
94.   VILLAGE LIBRARY
      
95.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Polluting watercourses
   
90.02   Pools
   
90.03   Cemeteries
   
90.04   Dense smoke
   
90.05   Nuisances, prohibited, abatement
   
90.06   Garbage and refuse
   
90.07   Dumpster placement
   
90.08   Trash containers and totes
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLLUTING WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to obstruct or pollute
any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 POOLS.
   Any stagnant pool of water in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance to
remain or exist on any property under his, her or its control.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish a cemetery or to bury any
person within the village limits, or within a mile thereof, except in an
established cemetery.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DENSE SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any
fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agent in the village so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof. For the purpose of
testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart as
published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be, and is
hereby adopted, as a standard for such grading, and smoke shall be and is
hereby defined as and declared to be “dense” when it is of a degree of density
of number three of the said chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any
one hour; whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCES, PROHIBITED, ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Refuse. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the
village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead
animals. Any uncovered pile of refuse is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Premises. It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure or
place to remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in
any way. Any such structure, building or place is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (C)   Offensive premises. It shall be a violation and shall constitute a
public nuisance to maintain a premises within the village limits in such a
manner as to cause a detrimental effect to adjacent properties, by causing to
have stored on the exterior of the premises any of the following:
      (1)   Materials and items stored in a haphazard or unorganized manner, so
as to present an objectionable visual appearance or a nuisance, but not to
include stacked firewood for use on the premises or compost material for use on
the premises;
      (2)   Yard maintenance equipment including, but not limited to, lawn
mowers, garden tractors, snowblowers, garden tools, and similar items, which
are stored outside in a haphazard, unorganized or unprotected manner, past the
season of the reasonable use of such equipment;
      (3)   Materials or items brought to the premises for planned improvements
such as landscaping, construction and similar purposes, including, but not
limited to, fill dirt, mulch and building materials, and which are not used for
said improvements within 90 days, or which merely constitute outdoor storage of
said materials or items;
      (4)   Recreational equipment, or parts thereof, including, but not
limited to, bicycles, motorcycles, boats, jet skis and snowmobiles, which are
stored on the exterior premises out of the normal season of usage, and which
are stored in a haphazard, unorganized or unprotected manner; and
      (5)   Household, commercial and industrial objects and materials stored
for more than 48 hours on the exterior premises visible from adjacent
properties or public right-of-way and stored in a haphazard, unorganized or
unprotected manner.
   (D)   Detrimental effect to adjacent properties defined. DETRIMENTAL EFFECT
TO ADJACENT PROPERTIES as used in this section shall include, but not be
limited to, diminished property value to adjacent properties, a creation of any
unsightly and unaesthetic appearance in the neighborhood in general, and a
decline or loss of comfort, convenience, well being and mental health of
adjacent property owners.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Deposit in streets. No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be
deposited in any street, alley or public way, excepting as is provided in this
chapter; and no such refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown about or
scattered by the wind.
   (B)   Burning.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of garbage, refuse,
leaves, grass, yard waste, twigs, tree limbs, lumber, scraps and shavings.
         (a)   GARBAGE is defined under this division (B) as waste resulting
from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food; waste from the
handling, storage and sale of produce.
         (b)   REFUSE is defined under this division (B) as combustible trash,
including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior,
tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral
waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt,
catch basin dirt.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the following acts of
burning:
         (a)   The burning by the village of tree branches, limbs and trunks at
the village operated burn pit;
         (b)   A person shall be permitted to burn for purposes of cooking food
for consumption of his or her family and guests;
         (c)   Recreational fires shall be permitted provided said fires are
contained in a fire safe vessel or pit not exceeding 24 inches in diameter. All
recreational fires shall be extinguished by 10:00 p.m. No fires shall be built
or lit so close to any building or other structure as to endanger such a
building or structure; and
         (d)   Bonfires shall be permitted under the following circumstances:
            1.   The fire is part of a community wide celebration hosted by a
taxing body or local not for profit organization;
            2.   The Fire Department and Police Department are notified at
least 48 hours in advance of said event;
            3.   Atmospheric or local circumstances subject to fire will not
create a hazard to health or safety; and
            4.   The fire will not be located in such a way to cause damage to
buildings or other structures, public streets or sidewalks.
      (3)   Any fires permitted under this division (B) shall be subject to the
following:
         (a)   The right of the Village Board of Trustees to prohibit burning
at any time for public health and safety reasons;
         (b)   The Village Police Department’s right to prohibit, stop, cause
or order any fire to be extinguished if the fire does not comply with the
provisions of this division (B), or if the Police Department determines that
due to the size, location, wind or other atmospheric conditions, it poses a
threat to the safety of persons or property; and
         (c)   Any permitted burning under this division (B) shall be
supervised by a proper and responsible person of at least age 18. No fire shall
be left unattended at any time.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DUMPSTER PLACEMENT.
   (A)   In residential districts, trash dumpsters or roll-offs shall not be
allowed on village streets, alleys or any village right-of-way.
   (B)   In residential districts, trash dumpsters or roll-offs shall not be
allowed in front or side yards.
   (C)   All trash dumpsters shall be placed so as to be generally
inconspicuous from the public right-of- way. A representative of the village,
in his or her discretion, may by written notice to the owner of any property
require the location of a dumpster be screened from view or be moved to a less
conspicuous location.
   (D)   A special use permit can be issued for dumpsters or roll-offs for
short term projects at no charge.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 TRASH CONTAINERS AND TOTES.
   (A)   All user-supplied containers, recycling containers and other solid
waste for pickup shall not be placed in the village right-of-way or street
before 6:00 p.m. on the evening before the day assigned for pickup and any
empty containers must be removed by 6:00 p.m. on the pick-up day.
   (B)   All user-supplied containers, recycling containers and other solid
waste for pick-up shall not be stored in front yard. All such containers and
waste shall be placed so as to be generally inconspicuous from the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023)
CHAPTER 91: NEGLECTED WEEDS, GRASS, TREES AND BUSHES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Nuisance declared
   
91.03   Removal notice
   
91.04   Failure to comply with removal notice
   
91.05   Removal costs; lien against affected property
   
91.06   Perfection of lien
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REAL ESTATE. Any lot, parcel, place or area within the village, including
the parkway located between the sidewalk or property line and the improved and
traveled portion of the public way adjacent to such lot, parcel, place or area
located within the village.
   REMOVAL COST. The total cost incurred by the village in the cutting of weeds
or grass, the trimming of trees or bushes, and the removal of nuisance bushes
or trees.
   WEEDS. Any and all weeds, grass, unhealthful or other noxious growth other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants exceeding eight inches
in height.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 91.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   No owner of or other person occupying any real estate within the village
shall permit any weeds to grow to a height exceeding eight inches on such real
estate. Any weeds exceeding eight inches in height are hereby expressly
declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   The Chief of Police or the building official is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify, or cause to be notified, in writing, the owner of any real
estate within the village, or the agent of such owner, to cut, remove or
destroy any weeds found growing or standing on such owner’s real estate. Such
notice may be delivered to said owner or agent personally, or otherwise mailed
by registered mail to said owner or agent at his, her or its last known
address. The person so served with a notice to cut, remove or destroy the weeds
shall abate the nuisance within five days after service of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 91.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REMOVAL NOTICE.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, or the agent of any
owner, who has been notified pursuant to this chapter to cut, destroy or remove
the weeds growing or located upon said owner’s real estate within five days
after service of said notice, the Chief of Police or the building official is
hereby authorized and empowered to provide for the cutting, removal and
destroying of said weeds either by employees of the village or by persons
contracted to perform such services on behalf of the village. The village shall
be entitled to collect all removal costs incurred pursuant to this section from
the owner or owners of the affected real estate.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 REMOVAL COSTS; LIEN AGAINST AFFECTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All costs incurred by the village in cutting, removing and destroying
said weeds shall be a lien upon the affected real estate. The lien shall be
conditioned upon the village sending a notice, either by personal delivery or
by certified mail, to the person who received the tax bill for the general
taxes on the affected real estate for the taxable year immediately preceding
the removal activities.
   (B)   The notice must be delivered after the removal activities have been
performed, and it must:
      (1)   State the substance of § 11-20-15 of the Illinois Municipal Code,
65 ILCS 5/1-1 et. seq., and this chapter;
      (2)   Identify the affected real estate, by common description; and
      (3)   Describe the removal activity or activities incurred by the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PERFECTION OF LIEN.
   (A)   The lien provided for in this chapter shall be perfected by filing a
notice of lien, no later than one year after the removal cost is incurred, in
the office of the Recorder in the county in which the affected real estate is
located, or if the affected real estate is registered under the Torrens system,
in the office of the Registrar of Titles of that county.
   (B)   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the affected real estate that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
      (2)   The amount of the removal cost; and
      (3)   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by the
village.
   (C)   If, for any one parcel, the village engaged in removal activity on
more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the village may
combine any or all of the removal costs into a single notice of lien against
the affected real estate.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violation any provisions of this chapter, in addition to the
provisions for lien contained herein, shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 for each violation. In any case in which an offense is of a
continuing nature, each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate punishable offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
Section
Explosives; Fireworks
   
92.01   Fireworks
   
92.02   Dynamite
   
92.03   Nitroglycerine, TNT
   
92.04   Gunpowder
   
92.05   Rules of State Fire Marshal
EXPLOSIVES; FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to store any fireworks in the village,
excepting as may be necessary for the giving of a licensed public exhibition of
pyrotechnics, as hereinafter provided for.
      (2)   Any such storage must be under the supervision of, and subject to
the approval of the Fire Chief of the Forreston Fire Protection District.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any fireworks or
pyrotechnics in the village.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or set off any fireworks or
pyrotechnics in the village; provided that public exhibitions of fireworks and
pyrotechnics may be given if a permit therefor be granted by the Village Board.
      (2)   Such exhibitions shall be given subject to the supervision of the
Fire Chief or of some person designated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 DYNAMITE.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any dynamite in the village in excess
of five pounds on any one premises or in any one building.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 NITROGLYCERINE, TNT.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the village in any quantities, excepting for medicinal
or laboratory purposes, and for such purpose no more than five pounds shall be
stored in any one building or premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 GUNPOWDER.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any black powder or gunpowder or
guncotton in excess of five pounds on any one premises in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 RULES OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   All explosives kept or stored in the village shall be kept and stored in
accordance with the rules enforced by the State Fire Marshal, with regard
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND SHRUBBERY
Section
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Public nuisances
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Forreston
Tree Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 93.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Definition. The following are hereby declared public nuisances under
this chapter:
      (1)   Any dead or dying tree, shrub or other plant, whether located on
village owned property or on private property;
      (2)   Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub or other plant, whether located
on village owned property or on private property, which harbors insects or
diseases which reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree, shrub or
other plant;
      (3)   Any tree, shrub or other plant or portion thereof, whether located
on village owned property or on private property, which by reason of location
or condition constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public;
      (4)   Any tree, shrub or other plant or portion thereof whether located
on village owned property or on private property which obstructs the free
passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or which obstructs a street sign on
village property; and
      (5)   Any tree, shrub or other plant or portion thereof whether located
on village owned property or on private property which dangerously obstructs
the view of such may be determined by the Public Works Superintendent pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   Right to inspect. The officers, agents, servants and employees, of the
village have the authority to enter onto private property whereon there is
located a tree, shrub, plant or plant part that is suspected to be a public
nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement. The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this chapter.
      (1)   Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on
privately owned property shall be pruned, removed or otherwise treated by the
property owner or his or her agent in whatever fashion is required to cause the
abatement of the nuisance within a reasonable time after its discovery.
      (2)   Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on
privately owned property shall be pruned, removed or otherwise treated by the
property owner or his or her agent in whatever fashion is required to cause the
abatement of the nuisance. No property owner may be found guilty of violating
this provision unless and until the following requirements of notice have been
satisfied:
         (a)   The Commission or agent shall cause a written notice to be
personally served or sent, by registered mail, to the person to whom was sent
the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year;
         (b)   Such notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub or other
nuisance, its location on the property and the reason for declaring it a
nuisance;
         (c)   Such notice shall describe by legal description or by common
description the premises;
         (d)   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance; and
         (e)   Such notice will require the elimination for the nuisance no
less than 30 days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to whom
was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year.
      (3)   The Commission is empowered to cause the immediate abatement of any
public nuisance provided that the nuisance is determined by the arborist or
agent to be an immediate threat to any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon being
found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fineof not less than $100, nor
more than $750, for each separate offense, each day during which any violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-5-2000)
CHAPTER 94: VILLAGE LIBRARY
Section
   
94.01   Library created
   
94.02   Care of books
   
94.03   Board of Directors
§ 94.01 LIBRARY CREATED.
   There is hereby created and shall hereafter be maintained in the village a
public library and reading room for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of
the village and which shall be forever free to the use of such inhabitants,
always subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as Board of Directors
of such library may adopt.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
§ 94.02 CARE OF BOOKS.
   Any person who shall carry away without authority, willfully or maliciously
cut, write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper, plate, engraving or other property belonging to the village and
constituting a part of the property devoted to the use of the public library,
shall be subject to a fine.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Established. The affairs of each library shall be managed and
controlled by a Board of six Directors, two to serve until the next election
held in an odd-numbered year in the village, two to serve until the second such
election after their election, and two to serve until the third such election
after their election. As the term of the Directors expire, their successors
shall be elected to hold their office for six years and until their successors
are elected and qualified.
   (B)   Vacancies. Vacancies in the Board of Directors, occasioned by
removals, resignation or otherwise, shall be reported to the Village Board, and
may be filled by appointment of a Director for the unexpired term of the
Village President, with the consent of the Village Board, until the time of the
next general election at which time a Director shall be elected to fill said
vacancy, and no Director shall receive compensation as such.
   (C)   Meeting and organization. Such Directors shall, immediately after
appointment, meet and organize by election of one of their number as president
and by the election of such other officers as they may deem necessary. They
shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their own guidance
and for the government of the library and reading room as may be expedient and
not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. They shall have the
exclusive control of the expenditure of all monies collected to the credit of
the library fund and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, room
or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for library purposes. Said Board
shall appoint a suitable librarian and necessary assistants and fix their
compensation, and shall also have power to remove such appointees; and shall,
in general, carry out the spirit and intent of this chapter in establishing and
maintaining a public library and reading room. The Board may make all
reasonable rules and regulations in order to render the use of the library and
reading room of the greatest benefit to the greatest number; and said Board may
exclude from the use of said library and reading room any and all persons
residing out of the village upon such terms and conditions as said Board may
from time to time by its regulations prescribe.
   (D)   Report to Village Board. The Board of Directors shall make and submit,
30 days before the end of the fiscal year, an annual report to the Village
Board, stating the condition of their trust on May 1 of that year, the various
sums of money received from the library fund and from other sources, and how
such monies have been expended and for what purposes; the number of volumes at
the end of the year in the juvenile and adult departments together with
complete totals; the number of periodicals received through subscription; the
number of volumes lent for home use in the juvenile and adult departments
together with complete totals; the number of persons registered as borrowers;
and such other information and suggestions as they deem of general interest.
All such portions of said report as relate to the receipt and expenditure of
money, as well as the number of books on hand, books lost or missing, and books
purchased, shall be verified by affidavit.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   General provisions
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Inspections
   
95.04   Dangerous and vicious dogs
   
95.05   Public nuisance
   
95.06   Biting animals
   
95.07   Rabies
   
95.08   Number of cats and dogs
   
95.09   Responsibility
   
95.10   Notice of impoundment
   
95.11   Compliance
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Policy and purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide
protection for the people of the village, to ensure their health, safety and
welfare, and to provide harmonious relationships between people and animals by:
      (1)   Protecting the residents of the village from rabies by specifying
such preventive and control measures as may be deemed necessary;
      (2)   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation and
injury from dogs and other animals;
      (3)   Encouraging responsible pet ownership; and
      (4)   Providing for the assessment of penalties for violations and for
the enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Animal control officers. The Administrator may appoint as many animal
control officers to aid him or her as authorized by the Village Board. The
compensation for the Administrator, Deputy Administrators and animal control
officers shall be fixed by the Village Board.
   (C)   Animal control facility. The village shall provide necessary
personnel, training, equipment, supplies and facilities, and shall operate
animal control facilities or contract for their operation as necessary to
effectuate the program. The Village Board may enter into contracts or
agreements with persons to assist in the operation of the program.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Village President. In the event the Administrator is not
a veterinarian, the Administrator shall consult with a local veterinarian
regarding all medical decisions.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, other than humans, which may be affected by
rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. Any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture and approved by the Administrator for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or
unwanted animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person appointed by the Administrator and
approved by the Village Board to perform duties as set forth in this chapter
and state statutes pertaining to animals.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain,
restraint or otherwise.
   BITE. Seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any animal capable of
transmitting rabies so that the person or companion animal so seized has been
wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of such animal
with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day including holidays that the animal control facility is
open to the public for animal reclaims.
   CAT. Any member of the family Felidae.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. An animal that is commonly considered to be, or is
considered by the owner to be, a pet.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner or its agent,
to an escapeproof building, house or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
   CONTROL or RESTRAINT. Any owned animal that is either secured by a leash or
lead or under voice control by a capable or competent person or within the
premises of its owner or confined within a crate or cage or confined within a
vehicle or on the premises of another person with the consent of that person.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious physical injury.
   DOG. Any member of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a dog in conjunction with other measures which may be taken
by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a dog within the enclosure.
Additional measures to ensure the animal is not able to escape by digging under
the fence line should be taken. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a residence,
it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless it leads
directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be locked. Such ENCLOSURE shall
be securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom
and shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
   IMPOUND. Taken into the custody of the Administrator.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, nylon strap or chain which shall be securely
fastened to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal subject to leashing
under state law and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog or other
animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal or keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian,
or who knowingly permits a dog or other animal to remain on any premises
occupied by him or her for a period of seven days. OWNER does not include a
feral cat caretaker who participated in a trap spay/neuter, return or release
program.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, municipal corporation
or political subdivision, or any other business unit.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of a physical condition that creates
a substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement,
protracted impairment of health, impairment of the function of any bodily
organ, or plastic surgery.
   SUPPORT DOG. A dog trained by a recognized organization to assist the
handicapped.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog that, without justification, attacks a person and
causes serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been
found to be a dangerous dog upon three separate occasions.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 95.03 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Commercial kennels. The Administrator shall cooperate with and assist,
when necessary, the Illinois Department of Agriculture in inspections and
enforcement of state laws, rules and regulations regarding commercial kennels.
   (B)   Access to premises. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this chapter and making inspections hereunder, the Administrator, his or her
authorized representative or any law enforcement officer may enter upon private
premises, provided that the entry shall not be made into any building that is a
person’s residence, to apprehend an animal running at large which is prohibited
from doing so, or a dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies. If
after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal shall refuse to
deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall be in violation
of this section and the Illinois Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   General restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, possess,
care for or act as custodian for, within the village, any dog that has been
deemed vicious under this chapter.
      (2)   Any dog in the village which has been found to be vicious shall be
ordered impounded by the Administrator or its authorized representative, county
animal control officer or its authorized representative, or a law enforcement
officer, and shall be delivered over to a licensed veterinarian for humane
destruction in compliance with the provisions of the Illinois Animal Control
Act, being 510 ILCS 5. Upon the taking of said vicious dog, the Administrator,
county animal control officer, one of their authorized representatives or a law
enforcement officer, shall forthwith notify the owner or keeper of such vicious
dog personally or by mail of such event and the location where the animal is
being held, unless such owner is unknown or cannot be found.
      (3)   If the owner of a vicious dog has not appealed the impoundment
order to the circuit court of the county in which the animal was impounded
within seven working days, the dog shall be humanely dispatched. A dog found to
be vicious shall not be released to the owner except upon final order of a
court of competent jurisdiction. All costs incurred for boarding the animal
during such appeal shall be paid by the owner.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal permitted to be regulated under
state law to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by a leash
or other control method.
   (B)   Vicious dog and dangerous dog determination. In order to find a dog to
be a vicious dog or dangerous dog as defined herein:
      (1)   The Administrator, his or her duly authorized representative or law
enforcement officer shall:
         (a)   Send within ten business days of the Administrator becoming
aware of the alleged infraction, notifications to the owner of the alleged
infractions, and of the fact of the initiation of an investigation;
         (b)   Afford the owner an opportunity to meet with the Administrator
prior to the making of a determination;
         (c)   Conduct a thorough investigation, in which he or she may gather
any medical or veterinary evidence and interview witnesses; and
         (d)   Make a finding in writing that the dog is a vicious dog or
dangerous dog, as applicable, as defined herein and, based on that finding, the
Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative has declared in
writing that the dog is a vicious dog or dangerous dog.
      (2)   The circuit court has found the dog to be a vicious dog or
dangerous dog as defined herein and has entered an order based on that finding.
A copy of the finding that a dog is a vicious dog shall be delivered to the
owner or keeper of the dog either personally or via registered or certified
mail at the same time that the impoundment order is delivered to the owner or
keeper of the dog. A copy of the finding that a dog is a dangerous dog shall be
delivered to the owner or keeper of the dog either personally or via registered
or certified mail within seven working days following such determination.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous or vicious if the
Administrator, or his or her designee, determines the conduct of the dog was
justified because either:
         (a)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was
committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
occupied by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting or
physically threatening the dog or its offspring;
         (c)   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was attacking
or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
         (d)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian or a member of its household, kennel or offspring.
      (2)   Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified
veterinary behaviorist or other recognized expert may be relevant to the
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified pursuant to the
provisions of this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any dog shall not permit such animal to run at large
within the village. No owner or keeper of any horse, mule, swine, goat or other
like animal, or of any chicken, goose, duck, turkey or guinea or other fowl,
shall allow the same to run at large within the limits of the village.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit any dog owned by them, unless under
restraint, to be on any public place or on any privately owned premises other
than those of the owner without that property owner’s consent.
   (C)   Any dog or other animal prohibited from running at large found running
at large, not confined to the owner’s property or on public property not under
restraint shall be deemed a declared public health nuisance. The Administrator
shall capture and impound any such animal. The Administrator or the village’s
animal control officer shall, immediately upon impounding any dog or other
animal make complete registry and enter therein the breed, color and sex of
such dog or other animal. A dog found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter a second or subsequent time must be spayed or
neutered within 30 days after being reclaimed unless already spayed or
neutered; failure to comply shall result in impoundment.
   (D)   Any owner of a dog who shall permit the dog to bark, growl, howl or
whine in a loud manner, disturbing the quiet and peace and the peaceful
enjoyment of others of the same, adjoining or nearby property or vicinity shall
be deemed to be unlawfully creating, maintaining and suffering to exist a
public nuisance.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat or other animal even though on a
leash, to be present at or upon any school premises, public beach or public
swimming pool, unless permission is granted by the agency which has
jurisdiction over same. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
working support dogs or police dogs.
   (F)   The owner of any dog, cat or other animal shall not permit such dog,
cat or other animal to injure, destroy or carry any vegetable, plant, fruit,
shrub, tree, flower or other thing which may be on or which may be planted or
seeded on public property.
   (G)   No person shall allow cat or dog feces to accumulate in any yard, pen
or premises in or upon which a cat or dog shall be confined or kept so that it
becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity or a health hazard to the
residing cat or dog.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or walker of any dog
to permit his or her dog to discharge its excrement upon any public or private
property except upon the property of the owner of the animal or upon the
property of one who has assented thereto unless such owner, keeper, or walker
immediately thereafter removes such animal’s excrement from the public or
private property in question.
      (2)   If the excrement is not immediately removed, the owner, keeper or
walker shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   This division (H) shall not apply to a person who is visually
handicapped or physically handicapped such that said person is unable to
accomplish the removal of excrement.
   (I)   No person shall permit a dangerous animal to run at large or shall
lead any such animal with a chain, rope or other appliance, whether such animal
be muzzled or unmuzzled in any street or public place within the village.
   (J)   No dog or cat afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease or to
be exposed in any public place whereby the health of people or animals may be
affected, nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from the
premises of the owner thereof except under the supervision of the
Administrator.
   (K)   No person shall cause or allow to keep within the village any cattle,
bison, swine, sheep, goats, horses, llamas, ostriches, geese, poultry or
pigeons.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person having direct knowledge that any person
has been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal capable of transmitting rabies to
refuse to notify the Administrator immediately. It is within the scope of this
chapter that the Administrator may request physician verification of the
reported bite.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to euthanize,
sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog or other animal known to
have bitten a person, until it is released by the Administrator.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog, cat or other animal to
refuse or fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
Administrator. If such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall
be mailed to the owner of such dog or other animal by regular mail, postage
prepaid. The affidavit or testimony of the Administrator delivering or mailing
such instruction is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog or other
animal was notified of his or her responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 RABIES.
   Wherever the Village President shall deem it advisable for the prevention of
rabies, or when ordered by the Illinois Department of Agriculture, he or she
may issue his or her proclamation requiring all dogs or other animals which can
be regulated pursuant to state law within the village to be confined in an
enclosure, or to be muzzled, for such time as he or she may in his or her
proclamation designate; and whoever permits any animal to run at large, or
remain at large unmuzzled, contrary to the terms of the proclamation, whether
the animal is licensed or not, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
such animal so running at large may be destroyed by or under the direction of
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 NUMBER OF CATS AND DOGS.
   No owner or owners in any single dwelling unit shall keep more than three
dogs or three cats or any combination thereof totaling three in said single
dwelling unit. Provided, however, that the above limitation shall not apply for
a period of 90 days from the date of birth of offspring of dogs or cats in a
dwelling unit. The number limitation does not apply to hospitals, clinics or
other facilities operated by a licensed veterinarian for the care and treatment
of animals. Owners keeping more than three dogs or cats in any single dwelling
unit on the date of passage of this chapter shall be allowed to keep those
animals for the remainder of their natural lives regardless of the limitation
specified above.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Administrator or his or her duly authorized representatives or anyone
lawfully enforcing the provisions of this chapter on behalf of the village
shall not be held unreasonably responsible for any accident or disease which
may affect any dog, cat or other animal which may occur as a result of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-10) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 95.10 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   A notice of impoundment shall be given by the Administrator, his
or her authorized representative or a law enforcement officer to the owner, if
known, in person or sent by certified or registered mail for any animal
impounded pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   If notice is not able to be served in person or by registered or
certified mail, the notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the owner’s last known address is
located.
   (B)   The notice of impoundment shall include the following: listing of
deficiencies noted; an accurate description of the animal or animals involved;
the date on which the animal or animals were impounded; the signature of the
investigator; and a statement that the violator may request an appeal of the
impoundment pursuant to this chapter within seven business days after
impoundment of the animal. Return of the animal to the owner may be denied or
withheld until the owner shall have made full payment for all expenses incurred
and for any accrued charges.
   (C)   If the impoundment is not appealed within seven business days of the
impoundment, the animal is forfeited and the Administrator may lawfully and
without liability provide for adoption of the animal or it may be humanely
euthanized.
   (D)   The person who forfeited the animal or a person dwelling in the same
household as the person who forfeited the animal may not adopt. No matter what
the disposition of the animal in the appeal, the owner is subject to and
responsible for any and all violations and expenses which may ensue.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-11) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 95.11 COMPLIANCE.
   The Administrator or any officer of the village’s Police Department is
authorized to sign a complaint for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter and to issue a citation notifying the offender to appear in court at
the time designated for hearing such case.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-12) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100 and not more than $750 for each offense. Each day a person
fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-9) (Ord. 2009-04, passed 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibited conduct
   
96.04   Ejections and exclusions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is preserve parks of the village for the
enjoyment, safety, comfort and convenience of the public by prohibiting conduct
that unreasonably interferes with the administration and lawful use of the
parks of the village, by preventing nuisances, and by protecting the health,
welfare and safety of the public using the parks.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer employed by the village.
   EJECTION. An order given by an authorized officer directing a person to
immediately leave any village parks and not to return for the remainder of the
day.
   EXCLUSION. An order given by an authorized officer prohibiting a person from
entering or remaining at any village park for a specified length of time.
   HOURS OF CLOSURE. Any between sunrise and sunset and any length of time a
village park is designated for closure to the public, including in connection
with an activity programmed or scheduled by the village.
   PROHIBITED CONDUCT. Behavior, conduct or activity at any village park
described as prohibited conduct in §
96.03.
   VILLAGE PARKS. Memorial Park and Warnken Park.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Prohibited conduct includes behavior, conduct or activity at any village
park that violates federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule or regulation,
including, but not limited to, the following.
   (A)   No person shall be in a village park during hours of closure, except
in conjunction with an activity programmed or scheduled by the village. Groups
may reserve the use of park shelters by registering with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   No person subject to an ejection or exclusion order shall be present
in the village parks.
   (C)   No person shall discharge any fireworks in the village parks without a
special events permit. No person shall discharge any firearms.
   (D)   No person shall utilize the personal property, fixtures, toilets and
equipment of the village, including all chairs, benches and tables, in any
manner other than for the purpose for which they are designed and customarily
used. No person shall stand upon any chairs, benches or tables or sit or lie on
the top of any table or on the back of any chair or bench.
   (E)   No person shall take, remove, destroy, break, cut, injure, mutilate or
deface in any way, or attach anything to, any building, structure, monument,
statue, wall, fence, railing, chair, bench, table or any other personal
property, fixtures or equipment of the village. No chair, bench, table or any
other personal property, fixtures or equipment shall be moved from their
designated location.
   (F)   No person shall deposit objects of any kind, other than human waste or
toilet tissue, in the toilets or plumbing fixtures of the restrooms located
within the village parks.
   (G)   No person shall drive or ride upon the grass or footways or elsewhere
other than upon the designated roads for the use of vehicles.
   (H)   No person shall remove, destroy, break, injure, mutilate or deface in
any way any tree, shrub, fem, flower, plant or other vegetation.
   (I)   No person shall chase, kill, set snare for, catch or attempt to catch
any squirrels, birds, fish or any other animal being in the village parks or
kept therein.
   (J)   No person shall paste, affix or inscribe any handbill or poster on any
structure or property in or upon on any of the village parks.
   (K)   No person shall use obscene or abusive language or gestures, or
threaten violence or injury to the person or property of others, in a manner
intended and likely to incite or produce an immediate breach of the peace or
violent or disorderly response.
   (L)   Smoking or any use of a tobacco product is prohibited in village
parks, except at locations designated by the village. For purposes of this
division (L), SMOKING AND TOBACCO are defined to include, but are not limited
to, cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, clove cigarettes, e-cigarettes, nicotine
vaporizers, nicotine liquids, hookahs, pipes, chew, snuff, smokeless tobacco
and cannabis.
   (M)   No person shall sell any article or product whatsoever, except when
authorized in advance by the village.
   (N)   No person shall fasten any animal to a tree within the village parks.
   (O)   Gambling is prohibited in the village parks.
   (P)   No person shall make a fire for any purpose on the grounds of any of
the parks except a park employee when so directed by his or her superiors.
   (Q)   (1)   All dogs and other animals must be on a leash. Clean-up after a
pet is required, with proper means of disposal for the feces of the dog or
other animal.
      (2)   DISPOSAL is defined, for the purposes of this section, as the
prompt removal of feces by means of a bag, scoop or other device and an
eventual disposal at a garbage receptacle.
   (R)   No person shall allow their dog or other pet or domestic animal to
bite or in any way molest or annoy other park visitors. No person shall permit
their dog or other pet or domestic animal to bark repeatedly or otherwise
disturb the peace and tranquility of the park.
   (S)   No person shall trespass on any grounds enclosed with a wire, rail or
other fence in any of the parks.
   (T)   No person shall unreasonably disturb any picnic or intrude himself or
herself upon it without the consent of those composing it.
   (U)   No person shall throw, scatter or leave any paper, trash, garbage or
any rubbish or materials whatsoever in any park, but all such matter shall be
deposited at once in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (V)   No person shall make or cause to be made any excessively or unusually
loud noise. No person shall play or operate any sound amplification device
including radios, television sets, turntables, CD players, cell phones, public
address systems, amplified musical instruments, portable speakers or generators
or any other loud noise generating device. This section shall not apply to the
playing of any music instrument, public speaking or the amplification thereof,
in conjunction with an activity programmed or scheduled by the village or as
approved by a special events permit.
   (W)   No metal detectors allowed, no digging on park grounds without
approval of the village.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-2023) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 EJECTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to any other remedy or right of action allowed
by law, ejections and exclusions from any village parks are authorized in
accordance with this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize the ejection or exclusion of a person for lawfully exercising free
speech rights or other rights protected by the Illinois or United States
Constitutions. However, a person lawfully exercising these protected rights but
who commits an act that is not protected can be subject to ejection or
exclusion as provided in this section.
   (B)   Oral warning.
      (1)   An authorized officer shall attempt to give a person who may be
subject to ejection or exclusion under this section an oral warning and a
reasonable opportunity to stop engaging in the prohibited conduct; provided,
however, failure to give an actual oral warning does not nullify the
effectiveness of an ejection or exclusion.
      (2)   An authorized officer is not required to attempt to give an oral
warning before issuing an ejection or exclusion where the behavior, conduct or
activity constitutes one or more of the following:
         (a)   A felony or misdemeanor; and/or
         (b)   Dangerous or threatening behavior. Behavior is dangerous or
threatening if a reasonable person exposed to or experiencing such behavior
could believe that the person would be in imminent danger of physical harm.
   (C)   Ejection. An authorized officer may issue an ejection to a person who
engages in prohibited conduct and direct that person to immediately leave any
village parks for the remainder of the day.
   (D)   Exclusion. An authorized officer may issue an exclusion to a person
who engages in prohibited conduct and direct that person to immediately leave
any village parks, subject to the following:
      (1)   The length of exclusion shall be for 30 days, unless:
         (a)   The person to be excluded has also been excluded previously from
any village parks for any reason within three years before the date of the
present exclusion, then the exclusion shall be for 90 days; and
         (b)   The person to be excluded has also been excluded previously from
any village parks for any reason on two or more occasions within three years
before the date of the present exclusion, then the exclusion shall be for 180
days.
      (2)   The exclusion shall be in writing, signed by the authorized officer
issuing the exclusion, and include:
         (a)   The date of issuance;
         (b)   A brief description of the prohibited conduct giving rise to the
exclusion;
         (c)   The length of the exclusion;
         (d)   A statement that the person may not enter any village parks
during the length of the exclusion;
         (e)   A statement that violation of the terms of the exclusion
constitutes prohibited conduct and may lead to further exclusion from any
village parks and to arrest and prosecution for criminal trespass; and
         (f)   A statement that any person subject to exclusion may appeal the
length of the exclusion in accordance with the process set forth in division
(D)(3) below.
      (3)   Any person subject to exclusion may appeal the length of the
exclusion to the Village President. A written request for appeal, signed by the
appellant, must be received by the Village President at Village Hall within
five days of the date of issuance of the exclusion. The request for appeal must
state an address and one or more telephone numbers at which the appellant may
be reached. The filing of an appeal does not postpone the immediate
commencement of the exclusion. If a request for appeal is received, then the
Village President or his or her designee shall conduct a hearing on the appeal
as follows.
         (a)   The Village President, within three business days after receipt
of the request for appeal, shall notify the appellant with the date, time and
place of the hearing, which hearing date may not be less than five business
days after notice is given. The notice may be sent by United States mail or
provided by telephone.
         (b)   If the appellant is unable to attend the hearing as scheduled,
then the appellant must contact the Village President or Village Clerk at least
three business days before the hearing date and request that the hearing be
rescheduled. The failure to contact the Village President or Village Clerk is
grounds for dismissal of the appeal.
         (c)   The hearing will be conducted at Village Hall and does not need
to be a public hearing. At the hearing, the appellant may give testimony in
support of his or her appeal and present facts, circumstances, evidence and
witnesses to rebut the bases for the length of the exclusion. The appellant may
also ask questions of any witnesses who testify in support of the length of the
exclusion. Rules of evidence and procedure shall not be strictly applied. The
Village President or his or her designee may examine witnesses and continue the
hearing to a date certain if necessary to accommodate the scheduling of
witnesses.
         (d)   If on the date set for hearing the appellant fails to appear or
is otherwise not represented at the hearing by his or her attorney, then the
appeal shall be dismissed.
         (e)   Within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the Village President or his or her designee shall issue a written
determination on the appeal. The Village President or his or her designee may
reduce the length of the exclusion, sustain the length of the exclusion or,
based on aggravating evidence presenting at the hearing, increase the length of
the exclusion. The determination of the Village President or his or her
designee is final.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding and in addition to the foregoing, any person found guilty of
prohibited conduct at any village parks shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND STREET VENDORS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
      
115.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
116.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Inspections
   
110.02   Nuisances
Licenses and Permits
   
110.15   Required
   
110.16   Applications, forms
   
110.17   Signatures
   
110.18   Investigations
   
110.19   Fees
   
110.20   Termination of licenses
   
110.21   Building and premises
   
110.22   Change of location
   
110.23   Frontage consents
   
110.24   Revocation and appeal
   
110.25   Posting licenses
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the village whose
business is governed by such provisions to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of such material
or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the President
may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in
the village who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duty in making such inspection. No license shall be
revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or
person in charge of the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such
inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection
or obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 110.02 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 110.15 REQUIRED.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if, by himself or herself, or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation, or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 APPLICATIONS, FORMS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing
of the permit or license applied for. Forms for all licenses and permits, and
applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-2)
§ 110.17 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the President and
the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-3)
§ 110.18 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the
ordinances of the village necessitate an inspection before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
   (A)   The health officer shall make or cause to be made an inspection in
regard to such licenses in connection with the care and handling of food and
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, for the protection of
health.
   (B)   The building inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures.
   (C)   All other investigations except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the
President.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-4)
§ 110.19 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Village Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of part of the current license year the license fee
shall be prorated by quarters and a fee shall be paid for each quarter or
fraction thereof during which the business has been or will be conducted.
Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the
corporate fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-5)
§ 110.20 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the village, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the village a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, and in
the case of an annual license, statement shall be sent three weeks prior to the
date of such expiration.
      (2)   Provided, that a failure to send out such notice, or the failure of
the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to
obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an
action for operation without a license.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-6)
§ 110.21 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act, if the premises and buildings to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinances
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-7) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed, provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to the Village
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary, provided that the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the ordinances are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-7)
§ 110.23 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk when signed. Consents once given and filed shall not be
withdrawn, and such petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of
the same business, whether by the same proprietor or not.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-9)
§ 110.24 REVOCATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, any license issued under this chapter
may be revoked by the Village President after notice and hearing as provided
hereafter in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) below for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
         (b)   Any violation by the licensee of this chapter or other village
ordinances relating to the license, the subject matter of the license, or to
the premises occupied;
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude;
         (d)   Failure of the licensee to pay any indebtedness, fine or penalty
owing to the village;
         (e)   Refusal to permit inspections or interference with an authorized
village officer or employee while in the performance of his or her duties in
making such inspections as provided in §
110.01; and
         (f)   When the conduct of any licensee, agent or employee is so
inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare and/or the continued
operation of the business constitutes a nuisance and thus gives rise to an
emergency.
      (2)   Said revocation, if ordered, shall not be in lieu of any other
provision imposing a penalty for the violation of any provision of this village
code.
   (B)   The Village President shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license should be revoked in accordance with the
following divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice may be hand-delivered or sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the licensee to his or her last
known address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
      (2)   An attorney designated by the corporate authorities shall represent
the village at the hearing. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and have
the right to submit evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Village President
shall serve as the hearing officer and shall render the decision.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village President in
connection with the revocation of a license as provided in division (A) above,
shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board of Trustees. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within ten days after
notice of a revocation, a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees shall thereupon set
the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the applicant or licensee in the same manner as provided in
this section. The decision of a majority of the Board of Trustees present at
the hearing of such appeal shall be required to reverse the decision of the
Village President.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-10)
§ 110.25 POSTING LICENSES.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-11)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-12)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, AND STREET VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required
   
111.03   Registration fee
   
111.04   Conditions and restrictions
   
111.05   Issuance of certificate of permit
   
111.06   Revocation of permit
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for displaying, selling, storing or
transporting of articles offered for sale by a peddler, solicitor or street
vendor which is required to be licensed and registered by the Illinois
Secretary of State.
   PEDDLERS. Any person who shall sell or offer for sale at wholesale, retail
or as a commissioned merchant, or barter or exchange any goods, wares,
merchandise, fruit or vegetables traveling from place to place along or among
any public place, or from private property, or at the doors of houses,
apartments or stores; or who shall offer for sale or sale and delivery
immediately from a trailer or other motor vehicle or stand.
   PUBLIC PLACE. For purposes of this chapter, “public place” means any street,
sidewalk, park, alley, dedicated public right-of-way or any other public
property owned or controlled by the village or any other governmental entity.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who shall conduct one or more of the following
activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs or services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character or of utility services excluding
those offered by the village;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
   STAND. Any table, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon or any other
wheeled vehicle or device which may be moved without the assistance of a motor
and which is not required to be licensed and registered by the Illinois
Secretary of State, used for the displaying, storing or transporting of
articles offered for sale by a peddler, solicitor or street vendor.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person engaged in the selling or offering for sale of
food, beverages, goods, wares or merchandise in any public place or on private
property from a stand, motor vehicle or his or her person.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)    Registration shall be required as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Every peddler, solicitor or street vendor, prior to engaging
in the act of peddling, solicitation or vending, must first register for a
permit with the Village Clerk.
         (b)   At the time of registration, every peddler, solicitor or street
vendor must provide their federal employer identification number and their
state retailers occupation tax identification number.
         (c)   Peddlers, solicitors or vendors of food must provide evidence of
compliance with any and all required State and County Health Department
requirements, and proof of liability insurance.
         (d)   Registration shall also require the applicant’s name, address,
date of birth and telephone number; the food, beverage or merchandise to be
sold; the manner of selling and the mode of conveying same; the name of the
firm, company, organization or association being represented; and the make and
license number of any motor vehicle used in connection therewith.
      (2)   The registration shall also provide the names, address, date of
birth and phone number of any individuals working under the registration being
applied for.
      (3)   The registration shall also provide a description of the proposed
location or general areas in which activities shall be conducted and the
requested hours of business, which hours shall not exceed the times allowed
from time to time by the Village Board.
      (4)   No registration shall be accepted until the information has been
approved by the police department for verification of the information contained
in such application for registration.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following shall not be required to register for a
permit under division (A) above:
      (1)   Any person or entity organized and operated exclusively for
religious or charitable purposes and not operated for the pecuniary profit of
any person or organization if the sales by such persons or organization are
conducted by the person or members of any organization without remuneration and
the proceeds from such sales will be used for charitable or religious purposes;
      (2)   Programs which are sponsored by any other municipal authority,
including, but not limited to, county, school, park or township authorities;
and
      (3)   Any person selling farm produce, craft goods or other wares at a
site designated by the village, and during designated times, in the course of a
community enterprise commonly referred to as a “farmers’ market”.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The fee for registration hereunder and the duration of each permit issued
hereunder shall be established from time to time by further action of by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 111.04 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sound devices. No person shall call out, cry or use or operate any
whistle, bell, horn, radio or other sound making device for the purpose of
advertising any goods, wares or merchandise for sale or for the solicitation,
peddling or vending of any orders for any goods or services.
   (B)   Hours of business. The hours of business shall be established from
time to time by the Village Board. The applicant shall be informed of the
applicable hours of business upon issuance of the permit.
   (C)   Quitting private property. It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any peddler, solicitor or street vender to refuse or fail to leave any private
premises in the village upon being requested to do so by the owner, occupant or
person in charge thereof.
   (D)   Conduct to be orderly. No peddler, solicitor or street vender shall
annoy or harass any person by importuning such person to purchase or look at
his or her goods or wares, or place an order for goods or services; nor shall
any such peddler, solicitor or street vender enter any private house without
being first invited.
   (E)   Fraud. Any peddler, solicitor or street vender who shall be guilty of
any fraud or misrepresentation, either directly or through the agency of any
other person, while acting as a peddler, solicitor or street vendor shall be
subject to penalty provisions of the village.
   (F)   Display of permit. The permit issued under this chapter shall be
displayed at all times during the operation of business of the permit holder
and all persons acting under the agency of the permit holder.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon approval of the Chief of Police after consideration of the information
obtained relative thereto, the permit shall be issued with an expiration date
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be revoked by the Chief of Police
if the holder of the permit violates any of the provisions of this chapter. The
Chief of Police shall immediately notify the holder of the permit in writing
that the permit has been revoked and the permit shall immediately become null
and void. The permit revocation shall also apply to any person acting in agency
with the holder or the permit.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined an amount not to exceed $750 for each such violation. In
any case in which an offense is of a continuing nature, each day such violation
continues shall be deemed a separate violation, and shall subject the person so
violating such provision to a separate fine for each such day. Any person whose
permit is revoked pursuant to §
111.06 including any person acting in agency with such permit holder shall be
barred from a new permit under this chapter for a period of one year.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   State law adopted
   
112.04   Administration; Liquor Control Committee
   
112.05   Administration; Village Clerk
   
112.06   Licensing provisions and procedures
   
112.07   License classifications, number, fees
   
112.08   Bond
   
112.09   Change of ownership/change of local manager
   
112.10   Location change
   
112.11   Restrictions on conduct of business
   
112.12   Prohibited sales
   
112.13   Minors, restrictions
   
112.14   Vehicles, restrictions
   
112.15   Health and sanitation; facilities required
   
112.16   License suspension or revocation
   
112.17   Appeal from committee orders; review official record of proceedings
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes the four varieties of liquor, defined herein:
alcohol; spirits; wine; and beer and every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol nor to any liquid or solid
containing 0.5%, or less, of alcohol by volume. Nor shall the provisions of
this chapter apply to flavoring extracts, concentrates, syrups or medicinal,
mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit
for beverage purposes; but the provisions of this chapter shall not be
construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture,
preparation or compounding of such products. None of the provisions of this
chapter shall apply to wine intended for use by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, the affairs and management of such club are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meetings; and provided further, that no member
or any officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or
indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits
from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body of the general revenue of the club.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the
village in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors
for resale.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. An Act passed by the fifty-eighth Illinois
General Assembly entitled “An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors”, approved
January 31, 1934, as amended, being 235 ILCS 5.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION, STATE COMMISSION. The Commission created
by the Illinois Revised Statutes Chapter 43, Paragraph 97, being 235 ILCS 5/3-
1.
   IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who imports or causes to be imported into
the state, any alcoholic liquors for sale or resale within the village.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the application for the license
or in the license as the place where the business to be covered or covered by
the license is to be or is carried on.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, wine maker,
blender, processor or person who fills an original package and any other person
engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling or rectifying alcoholic liquors as
defined herein.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   OWNER, PROPRIETOR. All persons who are owners or are in control of any place
where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they
be individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders or corporations or otherwise.
   PACKAGE SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor,
in the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or
in part on the premises where sold; provided, however, that PACKAGE SALES shall
not include original packages containing less than one-half pint of alcoholic
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
of consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL, SALE AT RETAIL. Sale for use or consumption and for resale
in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum, whisky, gin
or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. To solicit or to receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale
and to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be construed to the end that the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the village shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.03 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All of the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5,
and of the rules and regulations issued by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission, which are or may hereafter be in force, which are applicable to the
village are hereby incorporated into and declared to be a part of this chapter
the same as if they were expressly set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.04 ADMINISTRATION; LIQUOR CONTROL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Membership. The Village Board of Trustees is a standing committee
consisting of the Village President as Chairperson and the members of the
Village Board.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   To study any matters pertaining to the control of alcoholic liquors
and to make recommendations to the Village Board;
      (2)   The Village President may revoke any retail liquor dealer’s license
for any violation of any provision of this chapter, or for any violation of any
state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquors;
      (3)   Right of entry: to enter and to authorize any law enforcing officer
to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether
any of the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, of
this chapter or of any rules and regulations adopted by it or by the State
Commission have been or are being violated;
      (4)   To exercise all the powers, functions and duties which now or
hereafter may be granted to it by the Illinois Liquor Control Act or by this
chapter;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
hearing has been served, to hear testimony and take proof for its information
in the performance of its duties, and for such purposes to issue, or make to be
issued, subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state; and
      (6)   To receive the complaint of any resident of the village, and to
investigate upon such complaint, or to investigate upon its own initiative, any
alleged violations of any law of the United States relating to the sale of
alcoholic liquor, or any of the provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
or any ordinance of the village including this chapter.
   (C)   Suspension and revocation of license. It shall be the duty of the
Village Board of Trustees to suspend or to revoke any license issued under this
chapter for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the
Illinois Liquor Control Act, or any ordinance enacted by the village;
      (2)   The willful making of any false statements as to a material fact in
the application for such license;
      (3)   The permitting of any unlawful, disorderly or immoral practice upon
the licensed premises;
      (4)   The refusal of any licensee to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to him or her at any hearing conducted by the
village; and
      (5)   The State Commission has suspended or revoked the license of the
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.05 ADMINISTRATION; VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications and issue all
licenses when directed to do so by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.06 LICENSING PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture,
bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport, deliver, furnish or possess any
alcoholic liquor for retail sale in the village without having first obtained a
retailer’s license issued by the village in keeping with the provisions of this
chapter and the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5.
   (B)   Lapsed, revoked and cancelled licenses.
      (1)   A license shall be treated as lapsed where a complete application
for renewal of the same shall not have been filed on or prior to the expiration
date thereof.
      (2)   A revoked license is one that has been made inoperative pursuant to
law.
      (3)   A cancelled license is one that has been voluntarily surrendered by
the licensee.
   (C)   Application for license.
      (1)   All applications for licenses from the village shall be made with
the Village Clerk, in writing, under oath and on forms of application,
furnished by the Clerk. Such application shall contain the information and
statements as set out in state law for a state license.
      (2)   At the time of application for a liquor license, the applicant
shall show evidence of ownership or bona fide lease for the premises to be used
in such business to cover the period for the requested annual liquor license.
      (3)   Each applicant for a license shall agree in his or her application
to comply with all the restrictions and regulations imposed by the laws of the
state and this chapter and other ordinances or resolutions of the village in
force at the time of making such application or that may thereafter be passed
relating to the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors, and shall authorize the
village to revoke such license for violation of such agreement, and that any
unused portion of the license fee, paid for such license shall be forfeited to
the village.
      (4)   Ineligibility.
         (a)   No license shall be issued to a person who would be ineligible
for the issuance of a license under state law. In addition, no license shall be
issued to the following:
            1.   A person who has not resided in the village for at least 30
days;
            2.   A corporation where any officer, manager or director, or any
shareholder would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than citizenship and residence within the village; and
            3.   A person who seeks to operate a license from a premises owned
in its entirety or in part by a person who would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within
the village.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to employ any person on such
licensed premises who would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship, residence within the village or age.
   (D)   License issuance, provisions.
      (1)   All applications for licenses shall be referred to the Liquor
Control Committee. It shall be the duty of the Committee to check the
applicant’s record with the Police Department and the County Sheriff, and the
State’s Attorney of the county. If any applicant for a liquor license shall not
have resided in the village for at least ten years immediately prior to this
application, the Committee shall have the duty to check in the city and county
wherein the applicant has resided during the ten years immediately prior to the
date of the application.
      (2)   All licenses shall be signed by the Village President and every
renewal shall be in all respects identical with the original or first license.
      (3)   All licenses issued by the village shall be annual licenses and
shall expire on April 30 following the issuance and shall state thereon the
name of the licensee and the address and description of the premises for which
the license is granted, together with the date of its issuance and expiration.
It shall be the duty of the Committee to see that all licenses are returned to
the files of the Commission upon expiration or revocation. Each license shall
contain the following clause, “Subject to revocation and under such
restrictions and regulations as provided by Illinois Liquor Control Act and
ordinances of the Village of Forreston regulating the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor and laws and ordinances amendatory thereof”.
      (4)   Nothing by reason of the issuance of a new license either in
connection with the transfer of a business to a new location or to a new owner
of an old location shall entitle any other applicant to a license for other
premises.
      (5)   Personal privilege, restrictions: a license shall be purely a
personal privilege good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner
revoked as provided in this chapter, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the
licensee. Executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee
which such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, under order of the
appropriate court may exercise the privileges of the deceased after the death
of such decedent until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six
months after the death of such licensee.
      (6)   Refund; renewal: a refund shall not be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this division
(D)(6). Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, that he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal is sought is suitable for such purpose. The
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the village from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 88-2, passed 5-2-1988)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS, NUMBER, FEES.
   The village may set from time to time as public welfare seems to warrant a
limit to the total licenses to be issued in the village, except that in no
event shall the village issue more than five each of Class A, B and C licenses.
The classification of licenses authorized to be issued under this chapter and
the license fees shall be as provided herein. The license fee to be paid shall
be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the
licensing year prior to the issuance of the license. All license fees, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be paid semiannually in advance
and shall accompany the application for such license. All renewal license fees
must be paid not less than ten days prior to the expiration of said existing
license.
   (A)   Class A license. A Class A license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises specified of all alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises. Annual fee for such license shall be $450 payable
in advance or in semiannual payments.
   (B)   Class A-1 license. A Class A-1 Sunday license shall authorize the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the premises specified of all alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 p.m. (noon)
and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday only. Annual fee for such license shall be $100
payable in advance or in semiannual payments. In order to obtain a Class A-
1 license, the applicant shall possess a current Class A license. Class A-
1 licenses shall be governed in all respects by the terms and conditions
governing Class A licenses.
   (C)   Class B license. A Class B license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor, excluding beer and wine, in the original package but not for
consumption on the premises. Annual fee for such license shall be $150 payable
in advance or in semiannual payments.
   (D)   Class B-1 license. A Class B-1 Sunday license shall authorize the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor excluding beer and wine, in the original
package but not for consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
(noon) and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday only. Annual fee for such license shall be $100
payable in advance or in semiannual payments. In order to obtain a Class B-
1 license the applicant shall possess a current Class B license. Class B-
1 licenses shall be governed in all respects by the terms and conditions
governing Class B licenses.
   (E)   Class C license. A Class C license shall authorize the sale of beer
and wine in the original package but not for consumption on the premises.
Annual fee for such license shall be $300 payable in advance or in semiannual
payments.
   (F)   Class C-1 license. A Class C-1 Sunday license shall authorize the sale
of beer and wine in the original package but not for consumption on the
premises between the hours of 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday only.
Annual fee for such license shall be $100 payable in advance or in semiannual
payments. In order to obtain a Class C-1 license the applicant shall possess a
current Class C license. Class C-1 licenses shall be governed in all respects
by the terms and conditions governing Class C licenses.
   (G)   Class D gas station/convenience store license.
      (1)   A Class D gas station/convenience store license shall authorize the
retail sale of all alcoholic liquors, in their original packaging, for
consumption off the premises where sold. A Class D license gas station/
convenience store license shall also permit the sale of beer and wine for
consumption on the premises, provided that the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The sale is made to a person over the age of 21 in conjunction
with such person’s operation of a video gaming terminal at the licensed
premises;
         (b)   No person shall be served unless such person is actively playing
a video gaming terminal at the licensed premises;
         (c)   The service of beer and wine is limited to two drinks per video
gaming customer for any 24-hour period;
         (d)   All beer and wine shall be poured from their original containers
and served in a clear container. No cans or glass containers shall be allowed;
         (e)   No beer or wine beverages shall be removed from or consumed
outside of the designated video gaming area at any time;
         (f)   No happy hour practices shall be permitted;
         (g)   No less than two employees over the age of 21 shall be present
on the licensed premises at any time that beer or wine may be served; and
         (h)   No advertisement, including, but not limited to, signage, shall
be permitted indicating that the licensed premises is a drinking establishment
or that beer and wine are available for consumption on said premises.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, a
Class D gas station/convenience store license shall permit the sale of beer and
wine for consumption on premises, Monday through Sunday only; between the hours
of 12:00 p.m (noon) and 10:00 p.m. There shall be a maximum of three Class D
gas station/convenience store licenses issued within the village at any one
time. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,800, payable in advance or in
semiannual payments. Class D gas station/convenience store licenses are limited
only to gas stations (which do not also qualify as a licensed truck stop
establishment or licensed large truck stop establishment pursuant to the Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et. seq.) or convenience stores.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (G), a CONVENIENCE STORE shall be
defined as a small-sized mercantile store that offers a limited range of
grocery and other everyday items for the convenience of shoppers. The operation
of video gaming terminals at any premises holding a Class D gas station/
convenience store license shall at all times be ancillary to the operation of
such premises as a gas station or convenience store.
   (H)   Class E and Class E-1 licenses. A Class E license shall authorize the
retail sale of beer, wine and wine coolers only on the premises specified for
consumption on the premises. The annual fee for such license shall be $450
payable in advance or in semiannual payments. A Class E-1 Sunday license shall
authorize the retail sale of beer, wine and wine coolers only on the premises
specified for consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
(noon) and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday only. The annual fee for such license shall be
$100 payable in advance or in semiannual payments. In order to obtain and
maintain a Class E-1 license, the applicant shall possess and maintain a
current Class E license. Class E-1 licenses shall be governed in all respects
by the terms and conditions governing Class E licenses.
   (I)   Class F restaurant license.
      (1)   A Class F restaurant license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises provided that the following requirements are
met:
         (a)   The licensed premises is an establishment wherein the service of
meals is the major source of income;
         (b)   The sale of alcoholic liquor is in conjunction with the meal;
and
         (c)   The sale of alcoholic liquor shall be by table service only and
no bar, other than a service bar, shall be allowed on the premises.
      (2)   Annual fee for such license shall be $450 payable in advance or in
semiannual payments.
   (J)   Class F-1 restaurant license. A Class F-1 restaurant Sunday license
shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the premises between the
hours of 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday only. Annual fee for such
license shall be $100 payable in advance or in semiannual payments. In order to
obtain a Class F-1 restaurant license the applicant shall possess a current
Class F license. Class F-1 licenses shall be governed in all respects by the
terms and conditions governing Class F licenses.
   (K)   Special event license. A one- or two-day liquor license, hereinafter
referred to as a special event license, shall be authorized for the sale of
beer, wine and wine coolers outside the building of a licensed premises or at
such location as permitted herein under the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   The special event license shall be available for one or two
consecutive days, on Friday or Saturdays only, and shall be operated during the
hours as set forth in §
112.11(C).
      (2)   Special event licenses will be issued at the Village Board’s
discretion.
      (3)   The special event license shall be available only to current liquor
license holders or nonprofit organizations and shall only be available for
charitable fundraising purposes. A CHARITABLE PURPOSE shall be defined as a
purpose consistent with that required for an organization to be designated a
charitable or nonprofit organization under the IRS code§ 501(c)(3).
      (4)   Any nonprofit organization making an application hereunder shall be
in existence for a minimum of two years prior to the application.
      (5)   (a)   The fee for the special event license shall be $50 payable
upon application for license. License application must be made at least 60 days
prior to the scheduled event and must include a stated charitable purpose. Any
application shall be processed as set forth in §
112.06(D).
         (b)   Property owner and licensee must submit proof of liability and
dramshop insurance when filing the application. The application shall include a
diagram of the event area, showing specifically where alcoholic beverages will
be served and showing the location of adjoining properties and nearest
residence (showing distance in feet to the nearest residence).
      (6)   A minimum of 15% of the entire gross sales during the hours of the
special event license must be donated to the stated charity. Proof of said
donation must be provided to the village within ten days of the date of
license.
      (7)   The special event license shall allow the sale of beer, wine and
wine coolers in the area immediately adjacent and contiguous to the licensed
premises and said area shall be entirely enclosed by fence, not less than five
feet in height. Other liquor sold inside the adjoining licensed premises may be
brought outside to the enclosed area.
      (8)   If the special event is not to be held on the premises of an
existing license holder or immediately adjacent thereto, the alcoholic
beverages shall be served in an area entirely enclosed by a fence not less than
five feet in height. The enclosed area shall have a controlled gate for ingress
and egress.
      (9)   No sound amplification of any kind shall be allowed in the outside
enclosed area after 11:30 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-7) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 99-4, passed 5-17-1999; Ord.
2002-8, passed 8-19-2002; Ord. 2003-09, passed 4-7-2003; Ord. 2005-07, passed
12-5-2005; Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-2-2022; Ord.
2022-13, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.08 BOND.
   Before any license or renewal thereof shall be issued, the applicant shall
file with his or her application, his or her bond payable to the village, in
the sum of $5,000, or in an amount as determined by the President and Board of
Trustees, conditioned that such applicant shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the laws of the state and pay all fines,
penalties and costs which applicant may incur by reason of any violation
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-8) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 112.09 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP/CHANGE OF LOCAL MANAGER.
   In the event one or more members of a firm or partnership withdraws from
such business, the business may continue by the remaining person or persons,
partner or partners under the same liquor license for the remainder of the
period for which the license was issued to licensee or licensees. In the event
the local manager of a corporate licensee is changed, the license may continue
for the remainder of the period for which the license was issued provided the
new manager meets the requirements of this chapter. The change in ownership
and/or the change in local manager shall be reported immediately to the village
and the change shall be shown on the original license application after
satisfactory review of the changes by the Liquor Control Committee. There shall
be a $250 fee for any change of ownership or change of local manager. The
failure by any licensee hereunder to comply with the provisions or any part of
this section shall be deemed cause for the revocation/cancellation of the
liquor license issued under this chapter by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-9) (Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 112.10 LOCATION CHANGE.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon authority granted by the Village Board; provided that
written application for such change is made by the licensee. No change of
location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location in the written
application is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the
laws of the state and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-10) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 112.11 RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Display of license required. It shall be the duty of any person
conducting a licensed business under this chapter to keep his or her license
posted at all times in a prominent and conspicuous place on the premises used
for such business.
   (B)   Operation under assumed name. Every licensee under this chapter who
does, conducts or transacts business under an assumed name shall be required to
comply with the terms and provisions of “an Act in relation to the use of an
assumed name in the conduct or transaction for business in this state”. The
failure by any licensee hereunder to comply with the provisions of any part of
this section shall be considered and deemed cause for the revocation and
cancellation of the liquor license issued under this chapter by the Village
Board.
   (C)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   All licensees licensed to sell alcoholic liquor under this chapter
shall be permitted to be open for the serving, selling, delivering or giving
away of such liquors between the following hours:
 
Monday    7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Tuesday
Tuesday   7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Wednesday
Wednesday 7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Thursday
Thursday  7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Friday
Friday    7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Saturday
Saturday  7:00 a.m.—1:00 a.m. Sunday
 
      (2)   Provided, that if December 31 falls on any day during the week
except Sunday, the closing hours shall be extended from 1:00 a.m. until 3:00
a.m. If December 31 falls on a Sunday, it shall be lawful for alcoholic liquor
to be sold or offered for sale, consumed on or in any premises licensed under
this chapter between the hours of 6:00 p.m. Sunday and 3:00 a.m. Monday.
      (3)   (a)   No patron shall remain or be permitted to remain on any
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor during the time that the
business of selling alcoholic liquors is not permitted to be transacted on such
premises, and the door shall be locked promptly at the time of closing and
shall remain locked during this closing period.
         (b)   However, in the case of the dining room of any restaurant, food
may be served to patrons requesting food services and the doors need not be
locked during the hours that liquor is not permitted to be served, but no
bartender, waiter, or any other person or employee shall be permitted behind
any service or other bar, and no wine or liquor lists shall be displayed or
placed on any table or counter, and alcoholic liquor shall not be served on the
premises during such hours as provided in the chapter.
         (c)   The time referred to hereunder shall be either Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, whichever is in effect in the village.
   (D)   Extension of credit. No licensee, his or her agent or employee, shall
sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on credit or on a
passbook or order on a store, or in exchange for any goods, wares or
merchandise or in payment for any services rendered. Nothing herein contained
shall be construed to prevent any club from permitting checks or statements for
liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at the hotel and charged to the
accounts of the guests.
   (E)   Bringing in liquor prohibited. It shall be unlawful to consume on the
licensed premises alcoholic liquor other than those furnished by the licensee;
the bringing in of liquor by patrons for personal consumption on the licensed
premises being hereby prohibited.
   (F)   Dancing restricted. No dancing shall be permitted in any room or place
where liquor is sold or dispensed or in any room adjacent thereto, unless the
licensee shall have first obtained a dance license and have it displayed.
   (G)   Federal wagering stamp prohibited. It is unlawful for any person
licensed under the provisions of this chapter, employee or his or her agent to
have in his or her possession a federal wagering stamp as provided by the
provisions of the Revenue Act of 1951 enacted by the Congress of the United
States of America. The possession of such stamp shall be considered cause for
revocation of his or her liquor license by the Village Board. Possession of
such stamp shall be considered prima facie evidence by the Commission that
gambling has occurred on the premises of the licensee.
   (H)   Prostitutes, lewdness prohibited. It shall be the duty and
responsibility of every licensee under this chapter that no lewd persons or
prostitutes remain in or about the licensed premises and that no soliciting to
prostitutes, practices of prostitution or lewdness, idleness, fornication or
other misbehavior is conducted on such licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-11) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 2012-09, passed 10-1-2012)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   Off-premises sales. No licensee shall sell, offer for sale or furnish
alcoholic liquor to any person or patron except on the licensed premises. The
serving of liquor for consumption on the licensed premises to persons in parked
automobiles or at tables thereon outside the building or barroom where the same
is sold is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Minors. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, served or given to any
minor.
   (C)   Liquor sold on credit prohibited. Under no circumstances shall any
liquor be sold on credit.
   (D)   Intoxicated and other persons. No licensee, his or her agent or
employee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person, or to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her to be a habitual
drunkard, spendthrift or insane or feebleminded person.
   (E)   Distributing to evade law. The free dispensing, giving away or
delivering of any alcoholic liquor for the purpose of evading any provisions of
this chapter or state law or any other shift or device to evade any provision
of this chapter shall be held to be an unlawful selling and shall ipso facto
revoke a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-12) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 MINORS, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Misrepresenting age. It shall be unlawful for any person not of legal
drinking age according to state statute to represent that he or she is of age
for the purpose of buying, accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor from a
licensee.
   (B)   Persons of nonage.
      (1)   Purchase or consume alcohol. No person under the age of 21 years
shall purchase, attempt to purchase or consume alcoholic liquor in a licensed
premises.
      (2)   Remaining on property. Except as provided in division (C) below, at
premises having Class A, Class A-1, Class E or Class E-1 licenses, no person
under the age of 21 years shall remain in or around the licensed premises. No
licensee to whom is issued a Class A, Class A-1, Class E or Class E-1 license,
or any employee or agent thereof, shall allow any person under the age of 21
years to remain in, on or around the licensed premises.
      (3)   Loitering. At premises having a Class B, B-1, C, C-1, F, and F-
1 licenses, persons under 21 years of age are permitted for any lawful purpose,
but shall not loiter on the premises or remain longer than necessary to
accomplish their lawful purpose.
      (4)   Sitting at a bar. Except as provided in division (C) below, persons
under the age of 21 years may not sit at a bar or primary place where alcoholic
liquor or beverages are dispensed.
   (C)   Employment of minors restricted. Persons 18 years of age or older may
be employed by a licensee for the purpose of selling, delivering or
distributing alcoholic liquor as a bartender, clerk, waiter or salesperson. No
person under the age of 18 years may sell, distribute, handle, serve or pour
alcoholic beverages or be employed to sell, distribute, handle, serve or pour
alcoholic beverages as a bartender, clerk, waiter or salesperson.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-13) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-15-2010;
Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 VEHICLES, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee, his or her agent or employee, shall serve, give or in any
manner be concerned with placing any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any
motor vehicle or to any occupant of a motor vehicle whether such vehicle is
moving or parked or is at a curb or in a public place or on the licensee’s
premises or other private place except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken.
   (B)   No curb service for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be carried on
in connection with premises for which a license has been granted for the sale
of intoxicating liquors, malt or vinaceous beverages, for consumption upon the
premises, either upon the public street or private property contiguous to such
premises so licensed.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-14) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 HEALTH AND SANITATION; FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every holder of a Class A, Class A-l, Class E, Class E-l, Class F and
Class F-l licensee shall provide separate toilets and washstands for male and
female patrons, and shall maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition
in accordance with the health ordinances of the county.
   (B)   Sanitation of premises. Generally, all premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor or the storage of such liquor, for sale shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with
the statute regulating the conditions of premises used for the storage or sale
of food for human consumption.
      (1)   Hot and cold running water. All sinks and particularly those at the
bars and counters used for the cleaning and sterilizing of glasses, dishes,
receptacles and utensils shall be provided with running hot and cold water.
      (2)   Sterilization of utensils. All glasses, utensils and other
appliances used in preparation, service and sale of alcoholic liquor shall be
properly cleaned and sterilized with steam or warm water and chemicals approved
by the state after use, and no utensil shall, under any circumstances, be used
a second time unless it shall have been after previous use thereof so cleaned
and sterilized. In so cleaning glasses and utensils, the use of water which has
been made unsanitary by previous use is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-15) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 2003-09, passed 4-7-2003;
Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Discontinued business, revocation. Whenever any owner or member of an
original firm or partnership, which is a licensee under this chapter, ceases to
carry on the business, the license issued under this chapter shall be
surrendered to the Village Board for cancellation. The Village Board shall have
the right to assign and reissue such canceled liquor license.
   (B)   Suspension and revocation.
      (1)   The Village Board may revoke or suspend a license issued by the
Board if that Board determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, or any valid ordinance
enacted by the Village Board or any applicable rule or regulation established
by the Village Board or the State Commission which is not inconsistent with the
law. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended except after a
public hearing by the Village Board with a three- day written notice to the
licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend, except in
those cases wherein the licensee has failed to pay the required license fee. In
such a case the Village Board may revoke the license without any notice to the
licensee.
      (2)   If the President has reason to believe that any continued operation
of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the
reason for such conclusion, and without notice or hearing, order the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period; except that, if such licensee shall
be also engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
      (3)   The Village Board shall, within five days after such hearing, if it
determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or suspended,
state the reason or reasons for such determination, and prepare a written order
of revocation or suspension, and shall serve a copy of such order upon the
licensee within said five days.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-16) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 112.17 APPEAL FROM COMMITTEE ORDERS; REVIEW OFFICIAL RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Any appeal from any order or act of the Village Liquor Control Committee
levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a license, granting or refusing to
grant a license, revoking or suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend a
license or refusing for more than 30 days to grant a hearing upon a complaint
to revoke or suspend a license shall be limited to a review of the official
record of the proceedings of the Liquor Control Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-17) (Res. passed 5-4-1987)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall result in a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $750 per offense. For violations which are
continual in nature, each day in which such violation continues shall
constitute a separate punishable offense.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation of this chapter by any
licensee hereunder shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   First offense within a 12-month period: a minimum fine of $500;
      (2)   Second offense within a 12-month period: a fine of $750 and
suspension of such licensee’s license for a period of 30 days; and
      (3)   Third offense within a 12-month period: a fine of $750 and
revocation of such licensee’s license.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in §
112.16(B) regarding the suspension or revocation of any license hereunder shall
apply to any violation involving a licensee’ second or third offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-16) (Ord. passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Application of regulations
   
113.02   Licenses required, applications
   
113.03   License fees
   
113.04   Conduct restrictions
   
113.05   Prohibited amusements
   
113.06   Inspections
   
113.07   Building and premises requirements
   
113.08   Special regulations for certain amusements
Amusement Devices
   
113.20   Definitions
   
113.21   License required
   
113.22   License application, issuance
   
113.23   License fees
   
113.24   License certificate, evidence of ownership
   
113.25   Number limited
   
113.26   Inspections
   
113.27   License revocation
Billiard and Pool Halls
   
113.40   License required
   
113.41   License fees
   
113.42   Minors restricted
   
113.43   Hours of operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall apply
to all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the village,
whether specifically licensed in another subchapter in this chapter or not.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 113.02 LICENSES REQUIRED, APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open
to the public and for which a fee is charged for admission thereto, without
having first secured a license therefor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be held to apply to those
amusements which are specifically licensed by any other ordinance of the
village.
   (C)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall comply with all of the general provisions by the ordinances relating to
such application.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE FEES.
   For such licenses the following fees shall be paid:
 
Licensed Activity                License Fee
Menageries                       $50 per day
Carnivals                        $50 per day
Exhibitions of inanimate objects $50 per day
Other amusements                 $50 per day
 
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 113.04 CONDUCT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Overcrowding. The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must
be orderly and quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person
attending such amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the
audience. It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
such amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or
other risks.
   (B)   Indecent shows. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to present, exhibit, conduct or take part in any indecent show,
theatrical, play, motion picture, exhibition or other form of public amusement
or show.
   (C)   Riots. It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of
any kind which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or
disturbance.
   (D)   Smoking. It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar,
cigarette or pipe on or beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building
used as an assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than 100 persons
in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainments are
offered, operated, presented or exhibited.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED AMUSEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any slot machine,
operated with a slug or coin for the use or operation of which a fee is
charged.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 2004-18, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department, and to ensure the conformance with the
provisions concerning such amusements.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
§ 113.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No smoking signs. It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises
or of the occupant in charge, to provide and place printed signs on which the
words “No Smoking” shall appear in letters at least four inches high, in
conspicuous places, at least two such signs being upon the stage or in the
wings thereof and one in each dressing room.
   (B)   Exit lights. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge
of any building or hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations for 100
persons or more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other
entertainment is offered, operated or presented, to provide and place a sign,
on which the word “EXIT” shall appear in letters at least six inches high, over
every door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom,
and a light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign,
which light shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is
open to the public and until the audience has left the hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7)
§ 113.08 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR CERTAIN AMUSEMENTS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any carnival, exhibition, show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place
that the only main accommodation for the public or audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 113.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for the
operation of a game, pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble, sphere
or of objects or figures, or by controlling the movements of the same or by
setting them in motion by mechanical means or nonmechanical means, which shall
include games commonly known as “pin ball machines”, “shuffle board”, “bowling
games”, “shooting gallery” and all machines or pool table games of a like
nature.
   MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE. Any automatic or coin-controlled or coin-operated
music box, juke box, victrola, radio or any similar device or any combination
thereof, from which music or other entertainment may be obtained by the deposit
or payment of money or other token.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club who
sets up any device for operation in any location or establishment not owned or
operated by him, her or it, or who leases or distributes any such device for
the purpose of operation by another.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-1) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall become an owner as herein defined, or lease or distribute
for the purpose of operation any such device as defined in §
113.26 without first having obtained the license therefor in the manner
hereinafter set forth, to be known as an owner’s license.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-2) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.22 LICENSE APPLICATION, ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring to secure a license either as an owner or for an
individual device shall file with the Village Clerk an application in writing
setting forth the name and address of the applicant, and in the case of an
individual device the location at which it is proposed to operate such device.
Such application shall be signed by the applicant. The President shall issue
the license upon compliance with all the terms of this subchapter and all
ordinances of the village. No license shall be issued until the fees are fully
paid. All owner’s license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
establishment of the licensee. Such licenses shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable, and in the case of an individual device shall apply only to
the premises for which the license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-3) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.23 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each mechanical musical device. In addition to the license fee
required in the preceding sections there shall be a fee of $20 per year for the
first mechanical musical device operated or set up for operation and $10 per
year for each device in excess of one. Said fee shall be paid in advance, and
no license shall be issued for less than one year. In no case shall any portion
of the license fee be repaid to the licensee.
   (B)   Each amusement device. In addition to the license fee required in the
preceding sections there shall be a fee of $20 per year for the first amusement
device, operated or set up for operation and $10 per year for each device in
excess of one. Said fee shall be paid in advance, and no license shall be
issued for less than one year. In no case shall any portion of said license fee
be repaid to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-4) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.24 LICENSE CERTIFICATE, EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license certificate for each device
licensed hereunder, and such license certificate shall at all times be
displayed in a conspicuous place.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of each license for an individual device
evidence of ownership thereof shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and any
transfer of ownership shall be immediately filed with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   No machine shall be installed for operation to another without a
written statement thereof immediately being filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-5) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.25 NUMBER LIMITED.
   No owner shall set up for operation, lease or distribute more than 100
devices at any one time upon any license granted hereunder. If more than 100
devices are set up for operation, leased, or distributed, then the owner shall
take out another owner’s license at the same fee for every 100 devices or
fraction thereof in excess of the first 100.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-6) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.26 INSPECTIONS.
   The village, through its officers, agents and employees, shall have the
right to enter at all times any establishment, place or building in which any
such devices are operated or set up for operation, and to inspect, investigate
and test such devices.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-7) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
§ 113.27 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the Board of Trustees
whenever in its judgment the public welfare requires such revocation.
   (B)   The acceptance of any license under this subchapter shall constitute
an agreement between the parties to such license, even though the license
itself does not state such fact, and the same may be so revoked.
   (C)   See §
110.24 of this code of ordinances for hearing and appeal procedure.
(Prior Code, § 2-3A-8) (Ord. passed 5-15-1978)
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
§ 113.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool, bagatelle or
pigeonhole table open to the public without having first obtained a license
therefor as is herein required. All applications for such a license shall state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of tables
to be used therein.
(Prior Code, § 2-3D-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.41 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual fees for any such license shall be $20 for the first table, and
$10 for each additional table.
(Prior Code, § 2-3D-2)
§ 113.42 MINORS RESTRICTED.
   Minors under the age of 21 years shall under no circumstances frequent,
loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time, unless it be
upon some lawful errand and sent under the direction and with the consent and
knowledge of the parent, guardian or other person having the lawful custody of
such minor; and it shall be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall so licensed
to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain within the hall
in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-3D-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.43 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No billiard hall, or other hall licensed hereunder shall be open for
business, or used, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that on
Saturdays they may remain open until 12:00 a.m. (midnight), and further
provided that no such halls licensed hereunder shall be open at any time on a
Sunday.
   (B)   If a licensee hereunder is also a licensed liquor establishment under
Chapter 112, the hours of operation shall be governed by said
Chapter 112.
(Prior Code, § 2-3D-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
114.03   Public nuisance declared
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), being
410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), being 410
ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from
time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 114.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are
prohibited in the village.
   (B)   No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the village of any of the
following:
      (1)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; and
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-21-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-21-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter may also be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-21-2019)
CHAPTER 115: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Permit required; application
   
115.03   Review; issuance; denial
   
115.04   Revocation; refusal to issue; emergency
   
115.05   Conditions; insurance; contents
   
115.06   Liability of sponsor
   
115.07   Public conduct
   
115.08   Disturbing assemblies prohibited
   
115.09   Interpretation; First Amendment protected
   
115.10   General regulations for special events
   
115.11   Reimbursements for village staffing
   
115.12   Village sponsored events
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. Any event designed, promoted or conducted in order to encourage
the gathering of people upon public property at a specified location and shall
include any farmer’s market, flea market, ceremony, show, demonstration,
exhibition, street dance, pageant, party, circus, concert, sporting event, game
or similar activity, except that a residential block event or parade shall not
be considered an ASSEMBLY for the purposes of this chapter.
   PARADE. A procession of any kind, which moves from place to place upon
public property along a specified route and shall include any march, race,
walk-a-thon, bike-a-thon, demonstration or similar activity.
   PARTIAL CLOSURE. Any limitations to the normally allowed vehicular traffic
on a village street, including, but not limited to, the temporarily limiting of
parking to one side of a street or roadway.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any park, street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or parking lot
owned, controlled or managed by the village.
   RESIDENTIAL BLOCK EVENT. Any event, including parades, designed, promoted or
conducted in order to encourage a gathering of residents of a block upon a
local street, or the sidewalks or parkways abutting a local street at a
specified location within an area zoned R-1 or R-2 where the sponsors of such
event reside in the block where such gathering takes place.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any residential block event, assembly or parade held on
public property as defined in this section in which 50 or more people are
expected to attend, or any event which will necessitate the closure of village
streets, or the interference with vehicular traffic upon village streets.
SPECIAL EVENT shall not include events for which all participants use
sidewalks, observe traffic safety and safety regulations and do not interfere
with the safe and orderly movement of pedestrians, vehicles and funeral
processions.
   SPONSOR. The person who has applied for a permit under this chapter. The
SPONSOR shall be the person to whom the permit is issued.
   VILLAGE SPONSORED EVENT. Any special event that has been explicitly
designated by resolution of the Board of Trustees as a village sponsored event.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly publicly promote or advertise, sponsor,
engage in, conduct or participate in, any special event unless a permit
therefor has first been obtained consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   For recurring special events that take place on a daily, weekly or
monthly basis during a specified period of time, only one permit shall be
required per calendar year. This shall not apply to private parties.
   (C)   The applicant for a special events permit shall submit an application
to the Police Chief at least 30 days prior to the date of the event upon forms
provided by the village; the time period shall be counted so as to exclude the
day the application is submitted and the day the special event will begin.
   (D)   Upon processing of the application, the Chief of Police shall cause an
original copy of the application to be provided to the Village Clerk for
maintenance and storage in the official records of the village.
   (E)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the sponsor and the name,
address and telephone number of the sponsor’s representatives who will manage
or direct the special event and who will be present during the conduct of any
such event; and in the case of a private party for which a permit is sought,
the name, address and telephone number of the owner of the property at which
such private party will be held;
      (2)   The date of the special event and the hours during which the
applicant proposes to conduct the special event;
      (3)   The proposed location of the special event, if it is a parade, the
route to be followed;
      (4)   A reproducible diagram showing the proposed layout of the special
event including proposed, and if provided, restrooms, first aid facilities,
emergency vehicle access, tents or temporary structures, utility lines,
lighting and area restriction devices (including barricades or screening);
      (5)   A narrative description of the special event;
      (6)   The number of persons expected to attend;
      (7)   The number of vendors, merchants, exhibitors and units expected to
participate and the facilities expected to accommodate them;
      (8)   Whether tents or other temporary structures will be used;
      (9)   Whether or not electricity and water will be needed and the manner
in which they are to be provided;
      (10)   A statement as to other types of licenses and permits, including
liquor licenses, that have been or will be applied for;
      (11)   The number and type of sound amplification devices proposed to be
used as part of the event activities or party; and
      (12)   A general statement as to the number and type of musicians or
musical presentations proposed to be a part of the special event.
   (F)   No application fee shall be required for submission of a special event
permit application.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 REVIEW; ISSUANCE; DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application for the permit required by
this chapter, the Police Chief shall forward copies thereof to the applicable
departments or divisions to determine compliance with the applicable village
ordinances, the effect of the special event on village resources and the
anticipated effect of the special event on public health or safety.
   (B)   Within 21 days after the receipt of a completed application, the
Police Chief shall notify the applicant that the village:
      (1)   Will grant the permit contingent upon submission of evidence of
insurance required by this chapter;
      (2)   Will deny the permit based upon criteria set forth in division (C)
below; and/or
      (3)   Requires a conference with the applicant to seek clarification or
offer suggestions as to alterations in the permit application.
   (C)   (1)   The Police Chief is empowered to deny a permit for a special
event only if, based upon the completed application and such clarification or
alteration of the application received by the Police Chief from the applicant,
the special event:
         (a)   Will fail to comply with noise, health or safety regulations of
the village or otherwise violate applicable ordinances or state statutes;
         (b)   Will unreasonably interfere with or restrict the delivery of
village or emergency services or business or residential activity within the
proposed special event area, on the proposed special event area, on the
proposed special event route, or other areas of the village;
         (c)   Will unreasonably conflict in time or location with other
permitted activities in the proposed special event area or proposed special
event route; or
         (d)   Will, with reasonable certainty, damage or destroy village
property.
      (2)   In addition, the Police Chief may deny a permit if the applicant
fails to attend a conference as required by division (B)(3) above or has
repeatedly violated the ordinances of the village with respect to special
events within the past 12-month period, or has failed to reimburse the village
for costs associated with the mandatory village staffing at a previous special
event.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.04 REVOCATION; REFUSAL TO ISSUE; EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Police Chief, in addition to the grounds specified in §
115.03, may deny or revoke a license for failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, conditions placed on the face of the permit, applicable codes
or ordinances of the village, or state statute.
   (B)   The decision of the Police Chief to deny or revoke a permit required
by this chapter shall be appealable by the sponsor to the Village Board. Such
appeal shall be initiated by written notice to Village Clerk within five days
after the date of service of such denial or revocation, or such appeal shall be
deemed waived. The sponsor shall be given an opportunity to be heard by the
Village Board upon any such denial or revocation within two weeks after receipt
of any such notice of appeal. The Village Board may sustain or reverse the
decision of the Police Chief based upon the criteria set forth in §
115.03. The sponsor shall receive written notice of the Village Board’s
decision, which decision shall be a final decision for the purposes of
administrative review.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code, if in the judgment
of the Police Chief, an emergency situation has been created such that the
continued use of public property by a permittee will immediately threaten life,
health or property, the Police Chief, or his or her designee, upon the issuance
of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or
hearing may immediately revoke the permit and require the use of public
property to immediately cease. No person shall continue to use public property
contrary to such order.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 CONDITIONS; INSURANCE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   If a permit required by this code is issued by the Police Chief based
on the criteria set forth above, the Police Chief shall issue the permit to the
sponsor for the special event as detailed in the application contingent upon
submission of required insurance by the applicant; provided, however, that the
Police Chief may attach reasonable conditions to the permit directly relating
to the criteria set forth in §
115.04(C) in order to prevent the denial of a permit and to provide for the use
of village personnel or equipment reasonably necessitated by the conduct of the
special event for crowd or traffic control. The use and deployment of village
personnel and equipment shall be as directed by the Police Chief.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of the permit required by this chapter, the
applicant will provide the Police Chief with evidence of public liability
insurance insuring the sponsor and naming the village as an additional insured
with the following minimum coverage’s: property damage, bodily injury including
death/occurrence/aggregate, $1,000,000.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application for a permit required by this
chapter, the permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The approved application;
      (2)   The conditions for the use of required village personnel or
equipment;
      (3)   Route or location, time and date of the special event;
      (4)   Reasonable conditions for the operation of the special event; and
      (5)   The signature of the sponsor acknowledging all requirements and
responsibilities, prior to the date of the special event.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall cause notice of permit issuance to be sent to
the Village Board, the Public Works Department and the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.06 LIABILITY OF SPONSOR.
   Every act or omission whatsoever of the provisions of this chapter by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any sponsor, or any
act or omission of such persons in relation to any other license or permit held
by the sponsor in connection with a special event held pursuant to this
chapter, shall be deemed to be the knowing act of such sponsor. The sponsor
shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done
or omitted by the sponsor.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.07 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere
with any special event for which a permit is in effect or with any person,
vehicle or animal participating or being used in such a special event.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall knowingly drive between the vehicles or
persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion, unless
directed by a police officer.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary,
to restrict street access or to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a village street or part thereof constituting a part of the route or
location of a permitted special event. The Police Chief shall approve the
posting of such signs to that effect, and may require such posting as a
condition of the special event permit. No person shall drive, park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation of such sign.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.08 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall disturb any lawful assemblage of people in the village.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 INTERPRETATION; FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTED.
   It is the expressly declared legislative intention that this chapter shall
be interpreted and administered so as to allow the fullest expression and
guarantee of First Amendment rights consistent with the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the village.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.10 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   In addition to any other applicable village ordinance or statute, the
following regulations shall govern any special event authorized under a permit
issued in this section.
   (A)   All special events shall cease at 11:30 p.m.
   (B)   Excepting residential block events. The Village Board of Trustees,
prior to a permit being issued, must approve any street closures. Closures
shall include all closures or partial closures determined to be necessary for
the interest of public safety by the Police Chief.
   (C)   (1)   For any residential block event requiring a street closure, the
Police Chief shall be empowered to authorize residential street closings
without additional approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   In such instances, 51% of the residents located on the properties
adjacent to the proposed street closure must agree to such closure in writing
prior to a permit being granted.
   (D)   Should a sponsor request, or the Police Chief require, a partial
street closure that includes temporarily limiting parking to one side of the
street, it shall be the responsibility of the Police Department to post such
notice of the closure.
   (E)   Any barricades to be used on village property in furtherance of a
special event shall be approved by the Village Public Works Department prior to
their use.
   (F)   Special event permits are non-transferable and can only be used on the
designated dates and times as printed and are required to be posted on site
during the special event.
   (G)   The sponsor is responsible for ensuring that the organization and all
participants and spectators abide by all conditions, ordinances, codes and
requirements of the permit.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.11 REIMBURSEMENTS FOR VILLAGE STAFFING.
   (A)   After a review of the proposed size and scope of a special event, the
village may require village personnel including police and/or public works
personnel, at the special event.
   (B)   In such case:
      (1)   The village, at its sole discretion, shall determine the number of
personnel necessary to ensure the safety of participants, minimize the
inconvenience to its residents, ensure the success of the special event, and
reduce the public liability exposure to the village;
      (2)   The village shall make all reasonable efforts to provide the
sponsor with a written estimate of staffing costs prior to the issuance of the
special event permit. Such estimate shall be acknowledged by the sponsor prior
to permit issuance. The issuance of an estimate, or lack there of, shall not
release the sponsor from the duty to reimburse the village for the use of
village resources necessary to ensure the safety of the public or the
protection of village assets;
      (3)   All village personnel involved in advance of, during and after, the
day(s) of the event may be charged back to the sponsor at their applicable
hourly rates;
      (4)   The bill will be transmitted to the sponsor within 30 days after
the completion of the special event; and
      (5)   Failure to pay any outstanding amount due for village staffing
reimbursements may result in the rejection of future applications for special
event permits or a requirement to post a deposit for projected reimbursements
prior to issuance.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.12 VILLAGE SPONSORED EVENTS.
   The following special events are designated as village sponsored events for
the purposes of the village’s special event permitting process: Memorial Day
parade; Sauerkraut Day; and Forreston Christmas in the Country.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties for violation of any section of this chapter shall be as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-2-2022)
CHAPTER 116: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
116.01   Adoption of Illinois Mobile Home Park Act
   
116.02   Required license
   
116.03   General standards
   
116.04   Violations
§ 116.01 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS MOBILE HOME PARK ACT.
   Mobile home parks shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
Illinois Mobile Home Park Act, 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as amended from time to
time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the “Act”),
which are hereby adopted by reference. Terms used in this chapter which are not
otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Act.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 116.02 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a mobile
home park within the corporate limits of the village unless such person shall
first obtain a license from the village therefor.
   (B)   An application for license shall be made at the office of the Village
Clerk, shall state the name and address of the owner and manager of the mobile
home park, the location of the park, and the maximum number of mobile homes at
the park, and shall be accompanied by plans of the park showing all buildings,
toilets, baths, washbasin facilities, sinks, water faucets, sewer connections,
streets, driveways and other improvements and utilities. In the case of a
partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other business, the date
of its formation, the objects for which it was formed, and the names and
addresses of its officers, directors, members, partners or other persons
authorized to act for and on behalf of the business. A certified copy of the
organizational documents filed with the Illinois Secretary of State and a
current certificate of good standing or certificate of existence shall be
provided. The application shall also include a statement whether the applicant
has made any applications for a similar license other than as described in the
application, and the disposition of such application, and whether a previous
license by any state, or subdivision thereof, or by the federal government, has
been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   (C)   No license shall be issued or renewed until the mobile park has been
inspected by the village for compliance with this chapter and all applicable
codes and regulations of the village.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall issue upon demonstration, to the satisfaction
of the Village Board, of compliance with all requirements of this chapter and
the Act. The annual license fee for the trailer park shall be $100 plus $10 per
trailer. The fee for the transfer of the license shall be $50; provided, that
the transferee shall first demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Board, compliance with all requirements of this chapter and the Act. Licenses
shall expire on April 31 of each year. There shall be no proration of partial
years.
   (E)   The license shall be conspicuously posted on the premises of the
mobile home park at all times.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 116.03 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In addition to compliance with the requirements of the Act, every mobile
home park shall comply with the following general standards.
   (A)   Every mobile home park shall be managed by a responsible individual
whose name, address and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the
village. The manager shall be responsible, along with the licensee, for
violations of any provisions of this chapter or the Act.
   (B)   An adequate supply of drinking water from the village’s water supply
facilities shall be available to meet the requirements of the mobile home park.
All connections shall comply with applicable village ordinances relating to the
water supply for homes.
   (C)   Every mobile home park shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall provide for the collection or removal of garbage and other
waste material on at least a weekly basis.
   (D)   Each individual lot within the mobile home park shall abut or face a
private or public street. All streets shall have unobstructed access to a
public street.
   (E)   Mobile home parks shall be kept adequately lighted at all times with
lighting fixtures that are in good working order and of sufficient wattage for
the safety of occupants and visitors.
   (F)   An accurate record shall be kept of all mobile homes, including the
name of the owner, the date of arrival, make, model and registration
information regarding the mobile home and towing vehicle, the license number,
and the square footage of floor space.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 116.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Upon violation of any provisions of this chapter or the Act, the village
shall notify the owner and manager of the mobile home park in writing at their
addresses set forth in the application for license, and if the violation is not
corrected within five days after such notice, the license of the mobile home
park may be revoked by the Village President. Prior to revocation, the licensee
shall be entitled to a hearing pursuant to the provisions of §
110.24(B) and (C) of this code of ordinances. Violations of this chapter or the
Act may also be enforced in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
130.01   Gambling
   
130.02   Video gaming
   
130.03   Intoxication
   
130.04   Profanity
   
130.05   Indecent conduct
   
130.06   Possession of liquor in public
   
130.07   Unlawful purchase of tobacco by minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling
resort to make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard, or to buy or sell any
chances or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device, except where
such is permitted under the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (B)   Devices. It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or
paraphernalia with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose; and any
such device or paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by any
member of the Police Department.
   (C)   Gambling houses. It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any
establishment maintained for a gambling house or resort.
   (D)   Advertising. It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or
resort in any street, alley or other public place within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 VIDEO GAMING.
   (A)   No licensee or his or her agents or employees shall permit any person
upon the licensed premises to play any games or participate in any activities
for money or other article of value or permit any person to bring on the
premises any wheel, machine, video gaming terminal, board, dice, slot machine,
punchboard or other machine or device used for gambling, except video gaming
terminals licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40.
   (B)   No licensee or his or her agents or employees shall allow in or about
the licensed premises the sale or purchase wherein any part of the article or
thing received or to be received, either as to quantity or value, shall in any
manner depend upon any chance or hazard, whether by means of checks, cards,
envelopes, dice, punchboard or by any means whatever, except at those premises
where the licensee obtains:
      (1)   Applicable state license or permit to conduct or allow others to
conduct the game commonly known as “bingo”; or
      (2)   Is a licensed establishment permitting it to do so under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40.
   (C)   Every clock, machine, slot machine, video gaming terminal, punchboard
or other machine or device for the reception of money or chance or upon the
action of which money is staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost is hereby declared
a gambling device and the same shall be seized, confiscated and destroyed by
the police of the village wherever found upon the licensed premises or place
controlled by the licensee, except video gaming terminals licensed and
registered under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40.
   (D)   Any individual, partnership or corporation intending to place a video
gaming terminal in its establishment shall first file an application for a
video gaming licensed establishment permit, which application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The location for which the license is sought;
      (2)   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental arrangement or other
written authority for use of the equipment at the location;
      (3)   The number of video gaming terminals to be on the location for
which a permit is requested; and
      (4)   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of
$200. The application fee shall be payable to the village by certified check or
money order.
   (E)   All permits issued hereunder shall be issued by the Village President
and attested by the Village Clerk and no permit shall issue until the
application therefor shall have been approved by the Village President.
   (F)   An annual fee of $100 for each video gaming terminal shall be paid in
advance on or before May 1 of each year. Each permit shall expire on the last
day of April of each year. There shall be no proration of permit fees. The cost
of such permit fees shall be shared equally between the terminal operator and
the applicable licensed establishment, as provided by state law.
   (G)   Each licensee shall comply with all requirements of the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40, as amended from time to time.
   (H)   Under no circumstances shall any person under the age of 21 years be
permitted to use or play a video gaming terminal.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-1-1) (Ord. 2012-09, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2013-01, passed
2-11-2013; Ord. 2022-01, passed - -2022; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition in or
on any street, alley or other public place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PROFANITY.
   It shall be unlawful to use profanity in any street, alley or other public
place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any immoral or indecent act;
or to appear in any public place not properly or decently garbed.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 POSSESSION OF LIQUOR IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or have possession of any
intoxicating beverage in any open container on any village property, except as
otherwise provided.
   (B)   Intoxicating beverages shall only be possessed in an open container on
village property upon approval of written application to the Liquor Control
Committee with the consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-8) (Ord. 91-17, passed 10-21-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase
tobacco products, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, chewing
tobacco and electronic cigarettes.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-9) (Ord. 98-11, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
   (B)   Any licensee who: knowingly permits a person under the age of 21 years
to use or play a video gaming terminal; or fails to fully comply with the
provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40, or §
130.02, shall have all permits of the licensee suspended, terminated or revoked
and shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. All hearings to determine whether said permit
shall be suspended, terminated or revoked shall be conducted by the Village
President. All appeals from any decision of the Village President shall be
limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the Village
President.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-1-1)
   (C)   (1)   Any person under 21 years of age violating any provision of §
130.07 shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   First offense. A certified letter of notification of violation
shall be sent by the Village Police Chief to the parent or legal guardian with
the following fines:
            1.   Fifty dollar fine to be paid at the Village Hall within ten
days;
            2.   Option to waive the $50 fine if violator completes a tobacco
awareness class within 60 days, if available; and
            3.   If fine is not paid or a tobacco awareness class scheduled
within ten days of receipt of letter, the offense will be forwarded to the
Village Attorney for prosecution.
         (b)   Second offense. A certified letter of notification of violation
shall be sent by the Village Police Chief to the parent or legal guardian with
the following fines:
            1.   Fifty dollar fine and completion of tobacco awareness class,
if available;
            2.   Fine increases to $100 if a tobacco awareness class has
already been completed on the first offense; and
            3.   If fines are not paid at the Village Hall and tobacco
awareness class scheduled if one is available within ten days of receipt of
letter, the offense will be forwarded to the Village Attorney for prosecution.
         (c)   Third offense. A certified letter of notification of the
violation shall be sent by the Village Police Chief to the parent or legal
guardian with the following fines: fine of not less than $100 or more than $500
and a mandatory court appearance.
      (2)   A parent or legal guardian of a minor (person under 18 years of
age), shall be notified and required to appear in court whenever that minor is
charged with a violation of an ordinance or state statute which requires the
minor’s appearance in court. To this end, it is hereby directed that a notice
shall be sent to the parent or legal guardian of the minor stating the
particular violation the minor has committed, that minor must appear in court,
that a parent or legal guardian must appear before the case will be tried or
disposed of, that failure to appear will result in a subpoena being issued by
the court to bring such parent or legal guardian into court, and that failure
to obey a subpoena can result in contempt of court with a fine or imprisonment
as the penalty.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-9)
(Ord. 98-11, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 2012-09, passed 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Disturbing assemblages
   
131.02   Unlawful assemblages
   
131.03   Mendicants or vagrants
   
131.04   Disorderly conduct
   
131.05   Noise control regulations
§ 131.01 DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any disorderly
crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 MENDICANTS OR VAGRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any mendicant or vagrant to frequent any depot,
store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or any
place frequented by the public in the village. Any person found sleeping in any
such place, and who has no established domicile or residence, shall be
considered to be a vagrant.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct
or of any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace.
   (B)   The causing or making of any unnecessary loud noise and shouting or
yelling shall be considered disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive or unusually loud noise that annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
jurisdictional limits of the village.
   (A)   Application. This section applies to the control of all sound
originating within the jurisdictional limits of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. An occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or limited liability company.
   (C)   General prohibition. No person shall make, continue or cause to be
made or continued, or allow to exist on property owned by such person:
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise;
      (2)   Any noise that unreasonably disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity within the jurisdictional limits of the village; or
      (3)   Any noise that is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural or unusual in time
or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood, rental complex or general vicinity from which said noise emanates
or as to unreasonably interfere with the peace and comfort of neighbors or
their guests, operators or customers in places of business, or as to
detrimentally or adversely affect such residences or places of business.
   (D)   Determination of violation. The factors for determination of whether a
sound violates the general prohibition set forth in division (C) above include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The proximity of the sound to residences;
      (2)   The land use, nature and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      (3)   The time of night or day the sound occurs and the duration of the
sound; and
      (4)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (E)   Exemptions. Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the
prohibitions of this section:
      (1)   Repairs of utility structures that pose a clear and immediate
threat to the life, health or well-being of the residents of the village or
loss of property;
      (2)   Sirens, whistles or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity or imminent danger;
      (3)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work;
      (4)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on
behalf of the village, the state or the federal government, between the hours
of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it
impractical to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.; and
      (5)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and other similar outdoor
events, provided that a permit has been obtained from the village prior to
same.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Police Chief or duly acting members of the Police
Department shall have primary responsibility for the enforcement of the noise
regulations contained in this section. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the Police Chief or duly acting members of the Police Department from obtaining
voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice or education.
   (G)   Violation. Any person who violates the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-15-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Combustible refuse
   
132.02   Criminal trespass to public parks
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to store any combustible refuse in such a way as to
create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
street, alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4-6) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon or remain upon any
portion of a public park within the village from the hours of 10:00 p.m. until
sunrise, except as otherwise provided.
   (B)   A person or persons may enter upon or remain upon any portion of a
public park within the village after the hours of 10:00 p.m. upon approval of
written application by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4-7) (Ord. 91-17, passed 10-21-1991) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST SAFETY
Section
   
133.01   Hunting
   
133.02   Weapons
   
133.03   Missiles
   
133.04   Discharge of firearms
   
133.05   Scaffolds
   
133.06   Articles on windows
   
133.07   Obstructing stairways or exits
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing or to hunt any
animal in the village other than as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons in the village without
having first secured a license to carry such concealed weapons issued under the
laws of this state.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street,
alley or public place; and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass,
nails, tacks or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk or alley in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms in the village; provided,
that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty nor to
prohibit any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or
her person or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall into any public street, alley or other public place or way in the village,
shall be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and it shall be
unlawful to place or leave any tools or articles on any such place in such a
manner that the same can fall into any such street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way from a greater height than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any moveable article on any window ledge, or
other place abutting on a public street, alley or other place at a height above
four feet from the ground, in such a manner that the same can be or is in
danger of falling onto such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used by two
or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the free
use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
      
153.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Construction Regulations
   
150.001   Compliance required
   
150.002   Hazardous uses
   
150.003   Wooden structures
   
150.004   Fireproof construction
   
150.005   Floor and roof loads and wind pressure
   
150.006   Permissible working stresses
   
150.007   Concrete, masonry
   
150.008   Party and fire walls
   
150.009   Chimneys
   
150.010   Stair and elevator shafts
   
150.011   Means of egress
   
150.012   Fire escapes
   
150.013   Dwelling houses
Building Operations
   
150.025   Use of streets
   
150.026   Night operations
   
150.027   Sidewalks
   
150.028   Safeguards
Moving Buildings
   
150.040   Permit required
   
150.041   Approval fee
   
150.042   Bond
   
150.043   Lights and warnings
   
150.044   Wires
Billboards
   
150.055   Definition
   
150.056   Administration
   
150.057   Permits
   
150.058   Nuisances
   
150.059   Construction, specifications
   
150.060   Restrictions
Electrical Regulations
   
150.075   Definition
   
150.076   Rules adopted
   
150.077   Enforcement
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.090   Definition
   
150.091   Nuisance declared
   
150.092   Prohibition
   
150.093   Abatement
   
150.094   Fire damage
Private Swimming Pools
   
150.105   Definition
   
150.106   Installation
   
150.107   Permit required, fee
   
150.108   Location
   
150.109   Fence requirements
   
150.110   Electrical requirements
   
150.111   Water supply
   
150.112   Swimming pool maintenance
   
150.113   Enforcement, right to inspect
Building and Property Maintenance
   
150.125   Maintenance required
   
150.126   Maintenance standards
   
150.127   Maintenance of accessory structures
   
150.128   Maintenance of premises and landscape elements
   
150.129   Maintenance after casualty damage
Accessory Structures
   
150.140   Detached accessory structures
   
150.141   Regulations
   
150.142   Application requirements
   
150.143   Inspections
Mobile Home Standards
   
150.155   Definitions
   
150.156   Permits
   
150.157   General standards
   
150.158   Mobile homes outside of mobile home parks
   
150.159   Converting to a building
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.170   Enforcement of provisions
   
150.171   Building permits
   
150.172   Variations
   
150.173   Fire limits
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 150.001 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter any building or structure, other
than fences, in the village except upon compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.002 HAZARDOUS USES.
   Any building or structure intended to be used wholly or in part as a theater
or auditorium or a public garage or school shall be constructed according to
the specifications for fireproof construction hereinafter set forth. Any
building intended to be used as a hospital and which is more than one story in
height shall be a fireproof construction; and any building to be used for the
storage of explosives or flammable liquids or for a dry cleaning establishment,
foundry or coffee roaster shall be of fireproof construction.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.003 WOODEN STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Side restrictions.
      (1)   No wooden structures shall hereafter be built within the fire
limits as given herein, or as they may hereafter be established, except
temporary one-story buildings for the use of builders during the construction
of the fireproof structure, wooden fences not over six feet high, piazzas or
balconies not exceeding ten feet in width or extending more than three feet
above the second story floor beams, bay windows when covered with incombustible
material, small outhouses not exceeding 150 feet in area nor eight feet in
height.
      (2)   No wooden building or structure hereafter erected or altered
outside the fire limits shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height.
   (B)   Area restrictions. No wooden frame building hereafter erected for any
occupancy other than grain elevators, coal elevators and pockets, and ice
houses, shall cover a ground area exceeding the following:
 
One story building                                      7,500 square feet
Two story buildings or two and one-half story buildings 5,000 square feet
 
   (C)   Lot lines. In no case shall a wood frame building be erected within
five feet of the side or rear lot line, nor within ten feet of another
building, unless the space between the studs on each side be filled solidly
with not less than three and one-half inches of masonry or plain concrete or
other equivalent incombustible material.
   (D)   Classifications. Buildings with wood frame work clad with sheet metal,
covered with stucco or veneered with brick, shall be classed as wood frame
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 150.004 FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. The term FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION as used in this subchapter
shall mean a building in which all the parts that carry loads or resist
strains, and all exterior walls and all interior walls or partitions and all
stairways and elevator enclosures are made of incombustible material, and in
which all metallic structural members are protected against the effects of fire
by being completely embedded in a material which shall be entirely
incombustible and a slow heat conductor. If the metal framework of a roof is
not less than 25 feet above any floor or balcony, fireproofing of members of
the roof framework may be omitted. If the metal framework of a roof is more
than 18 feet and less than 25 feet above any floor or balcony, the roof
framework may be protected by a suspended ceiling of metal lath and portland
cement plaster not less than one inch thick.
   (B)   Columns. The fireproof covering on columns shall be not less than two
inches thick if of concrete or gunite, or three inches thick if of other
approved material; on girders, not less than two inches thick; and on other
structural parts not less than one and one-half inches thick. The thickness
shall be outside of the extreme edges of the metal structural members.
   (C)   Acceptable materials. The following building materials, systems, units
and forms of construction, assembled and constructed as hereinafter required,
shall be accepted as fireproof constructions. The order in which the materials
are placed in the list is not to be construed as indicating their relative
fireproof qualities:
      (1)   Plain or reinforced concrete;
      (2)   Reinforced gunite;
      (3)   Precast reinforced concrete units;
      (4)   Hollow or solid concrete masonry units;
      (5)   Brick (clay, sand-lime or concrete);
      (6)   Hollow brick (clay, sand-lime or concrete);
      (7)   Plain or reinforced gypsum;
      (8)   Precast reinforced gypsum units;
      (9)   Hollow or solid gypsum block;
      (10)   Hollow clay tile; and
      (11)   Metal lath and portland cement plaster.
   (D)   Bedding. All fire resistive construction laid in units or blocks, such
as brick and hollow concrete or clay tile, shall be solidly bedded and laid in
portland cement or cement-lime mortar, as defined herein on mortar, and shall
be thoroughly bonded together by means of broken joints in alternate courses,
or by sufficient metal ties or bands. Provided, however, that gypsum products
shall be laid in gypsum mortar.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.005 FLOOR AND ROOF LOADS AND WIND PRESSURE.
   The design for all buildings and other structures shall conform to good
engineering practice.
   (A)   Loads.
      (1)   The following table gives the minimum uniform live loads in pounds
per square foot which shall be used in the design of buildings, except that the
specified live loads (but not the roof or sidewalk loads) may be reduced by 20%
in building of fireproof construction.
Building Minimum Uniform Live Loads in Pounds per Square Foot
                                                                                 Minimum
                                                                                 Uniform
                                                                                 Live
                                                                                 Loads
Building                                                                         in
                                                                                 Pounds
                                                                                 per
                                                                                 Square
                                                                                 Foot
Theaters, assembly halls, and other places of assemblage; auditoriums with fixed 70
seats
Lobbies, passageways, stairways and auditoriums or places of assemblages without 100
fixed seats
Dance halls                                                                      100
Theater stage                                                                    150
School buildings, libraries and museums; classrooms and rooms for similar use    60
Corridors, laboratories and similar public parts of the building                 80
Hotels, dwellings, apartments and tenement houses, club houses, hospitals, and
places of detention:
   Dwellings                                                                  40
   Private rooms and apartments                                               40
Public corridors, offices, lobbies, dining rooms and the like                    80
Office buildings:
   First floor                                                                100
   Corridors and other public spaces above first floor                        80
Office space above first floor                                                   50
Grandstands                                                                      100
All stairs                                                                       100
Garages:
   All types of vehicles                                                      100
   Passenger cars only                                                        80
Workshops, factories and mercantile establishments: not less than                100
   (In warehouses, workshops, factories and mercantile establishments for the
sale, storage or manufacture of heavy merchandise or machinery the floors shall
be designed to carry all loads safely, including the allowance of at least 25%
for vibration where vibration occurs.)
Roofs                                                                            30
Sidewalks                                                                        250
   (If any building where the maximum floor load is more than 250 pounds per
square foot, the sidewalk must be designed to safely carry such maximum load.)
 
      (2)   Concentrated, partial and eccentric loading shall also be provided
for.
      (3)   Except in buildings for storage purposes the following reduction in
assumed total live floor loads are permissible in designing the columns, piers,
walls, foundations, trusses and girders.
Reduction of total live loads carried:
Reduction of total live loads carried:
Carrying one floor            0%
Carrying two floors           10%
Carrying three floors         20%
Carrying four floors          30%
Carrying five floors          40%
Carrying six floors           45%
Carrying seven or more floors 50%
 
   (B)   Unit pressure. Buildings and other structures shall be designed to
resist a horizontal wind pressure of 20 pounds on every square foot of exposed
surface, in addition to the dead loads and the live loads specified above. If
the overturning movement due to wind pressure exceeds 75% of the movement of
stability of the structure due to the dead load only, the structure shall be
anchored to its foundations, which shall be of sufficient weight to ensure the
stability of the structure. Sufficient diagonal bracing or rigid connections
between the uprights and horizontal structural members shall be provided to
resist distortion.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.006 PERMISSIBLE WORKING STRESSES.
   Proportioning of the various load carrying parts of buildings and structures
shall be governed by working stresses conforming to good engineering practice
as set forth in the publications enumerated in this section, except in cases
where the recommendations in such publications are in conflict with specific
requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Working stresses in masonry shall conform to the recommendations in
the latest report of the Building Code Committee of the United States
Department of Commerce, under the title concerning Recommended Minimum
Requirements for Masonry Wall Construction.
   (B)   Working stresses in plain and reinforced concrete shall conform to the
recommendations in the latest report of the Building Code Committee of the
United States Department of Commerce, under the title Recommended Building Code
Requirements for Working Stresses in Building Materials or to the latest
edition of the Building Regulations for Reinforced Concrete, recommended by the
American Concrete Institute.
   (C)   Working stresses in cast iron, in structural steel and in timber shall
conform to the recommendations in the latest report of the Building Code
Committee of the United States Department of Commerce under the title
concerning Recommended Building Code Requirements for Working Stresses in
Building Materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.007 CONCRETE, MASONRY.
   (A)   Mortar. Portland cement mortar used in laying up masonry shall be
mixed in proportion of one part of portland cement to not more than three parts
of sand, by volume. Hydrated lime or lime putty may be added not to exceed 15%
by volume of portland cement used. Cement-lime mortar shall be mixed in the
proportion of one part of portland cement and one part of hydrated lime or lime
putty to not more than six parts of sand by volume. Lime mortar shall be mixed
in the proportions of one part of portland cement added to the amount of 15% of
the volume of lime.
   (B)   Materials for concrete and cement mortar. Portland cement shall
conform to the Standard Specifications and Tests for Portland Cement adopted by
the American Society for Testing Materials under serial designation C9-26.
      (1)   Steel used as reinforcement for concrete shall conform to the
specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials, as given in that
organization’s standards.
      (2)   Fine and course aggregate and water shall conform to the
specifications in the latest edition of the Building Regulations for Reinforced
Concrete recommended and published by the American Concrete Institute.
   (C)   Bearing power of soils. In the absence of tests the different soils,
excluding mud and quicksand, shall be assumed to sustain safely in following
loads per square foot, and footings shall be provided under all walls and
columns where required to keep the pressure on the soil within the limits
specified in this section:
 
Soil Type                                        Loads per Square Foot
Soft clay                                        1 ton
Firm clay, fine sand or layers of sand clay, wet 2 tons
condition
Clay or fine sand, firm and dry                  3 tons
Hard clay, course sand, gravel                   4 tons
Soft rock, shale and hard pan                    8 to 15 tons
Rock                                             15 to 72 tons
 
   (D)   Masonry walls. Masonry is that form of construction in which
incombustible masonry units such as stone, brick, concrete block, or tile,
hollow clay tile, gypsum block or other similar building units or materials or
a combination of these materials, are laid up unit by unit and set in mortar.
The minimum permissible thickness of walls and partitions of masonry, and the
quality of these materials, shall conform to the recommendations in the report
of the Building Code Committee of the United States Department of Commerce, and
published under the title of Recommended Minimum Requirements for Masonry Wall
Construction. Masonry bearing walls, party walls, fire walls, fire division
walls, exterior panel walls, inclosure walls or curtain walls, eight inches or
less in thickness must be laid in portland cement or cement lime-mortar as
defined in this subchapter.
   (E)   Monolithic concrete walls. Monolithic concrete walls having less than
0.2% of reinforcing steel shall be considered as plain concrete walls and the
thickness of single bearing walls of plain concrete shall be in accordance with
the recommendations in the report of the Building Code Committee of the United
States Department of Commerce as last published under the title of Recommended
Minimum Requirements for Masonry Wall Construction. Subject to the other
requirements of this subchapter, reinforced concrete bearing walls shall have a
thickness of not less than six inches for the top story with the thickness of
succeeding lower stories including basement, increasing at the rate of one inch
for each two stories.
      (1)   In such walls the amount of reinforcement shall be at least 0.2% in
each direction, horizontal and vertical, the steel being equally distributed on
each face of the wall within a minimum bar spacing of 24 inches. The combined
thickness of the separate parts of double or triple monolithic walls shall be
not less than that required for single walls, and no single section of a double
or triple wall shall be less than four inches thick.
      (2)   The sections shall be tied together with three-eighth inch round or
square galvanized or tar-coated rods, with two-inch hooks at each end, the rods
to be spaced not more than 18 inches horizontally and vertically. Exterior
panel walls supported at each story of skeleton construction buildings shall be
not less than five inches thick of reinforced concrete.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.008 PARTY AND FIRE WALLS.
   (A)   Beams. Where floor beams, ceilings or roof beams enter a party or fire
wall from opposite sides, the ends of such beams shall be separated at least
six inches by solid masonry or concrete. Such preparation may be obtained by
corbeling the wall or staggering the beams, but no wall shall be corbeled more
than two inches for this purpose. The ends of all wooden beams entering the
masonry walls shall be cut to a level to make them self-releasing.
   (B)   Openings. Openings in party or fire walls shall be provided with self-
closing fire doors or with positive means of closing the openings to prevent
the passage of fire. Doors in fireproof stair and elevator shaft enclosures and
coverings for hatchways in floors of all buildings shall be self-closing.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.009 CHIMNEYS.
   Chimneys for high-pressure boiler furnaces, used in manufacture, or for
other heating appliances where high temperatures are sustained, and all
isolated chimneys shall be designed and built in accordance with good
engineering practice so that the stress in every part thereof, due to
temperature changes, wind pressure, and the weight of the chimney itself, shall
not exceed the same limits specified in this subchapter for the materials used.
All ordinary chimneys which from a part of building construction shall conform
to the Standard Ordinance for Chimney Construction issued by the National Board
of Fire Underwriters.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.010 STAIR AND ELEVATOR SHAFTS.
   (A)   The stair and elevator shafts of all buildings except private
dwellings hereafter erected more than two stories high, shall be enclosed
continually by incombustible material, consisting of reinforced gunite not less
than two and one-half inches thick, or of solid portland cement plaster not
less than two and one-half inches thick on metal lath and metal frame, or of
reinforced concrete not less than three inches thick, or of any fireproof
material or construction that will pass the standard fire test of the
Underwriter’s Laboratories for a period of at least two hours.
   (B)   The thickness must in all cases be sufficient to give rigidity.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.011 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   All buildings, except private dwellings, more than one story high
hereafter erected shall be provided with at least two means of egress from the
building, as far from each other as the plan of the building will permit, or by
a doorway in a fire wall leading to another floor area which is provided with
adequate stairs or other independent means of exit.
   (B)   No part of a floor shall be more than 100 feet from an exit.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.012 FIRE ESCAPES.
   (A)   In addition to the exits otherwise required every building of more
than three stories which is used for residence purposes of more than one
family, or is used as a store, office or factory, and every building of more
than one story which is used in whole or part, above the first story as a
theater, school or auditorium shall be equipped with at least two metallic fire
escape stairways leading from the roof to the ground; provided that an enclosed
fireproof stairway of at least five feet in width, which is equipped with
fireproof doors and the structure and shaft of which are so constructed as to
be independent of support from the rest of the building so that they can stand
alone, may be substituted for such outside fireproof stairways.
   (B)   The ground exit of such stairways, whether enclosed or outside shall
be in such position as to afford ready and immediate escape from the immediate
vicinity of the building.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct, or permit the obstruction of, any
such fire escape or stairway, or the entrance thereto, or the exit therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.013 DWELLING HOUSES.
   The minimum requirements for the construction of single-family dwellings
shall be governed by the recommendations in the latest report of the Building
Code Committee of the United States Department of Commerce, published under the
title of Recommended Minimum Requirements for Small Dwelling Construction.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING OPERATIONS
§ 150.025 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The use of streets for the storage of materials in the process of
construction or alteration of a building may be granted where the same will not
unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable width of the
roadway to less than 18 feet.
   (B)   No portion of the street other than that directly abutting on the
premises on which work is being done shall be used excepting with the consent
of the owner or occupant of the premises abutting on such portion. Any person
seeking to make such use of the street shall file an application for a permit
therefor with the Village Clerk, together with a bond with sureties to be
approved by the Village Board to indemnify the village for any loss or damage
which may be incurred by it by reason of such use, or damage which may be
incurred by such occupation.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.026 NIGHT OPERATIONS.
   No construction or altering operations shall be carried on in the nighttime
if the same are accompanied by loud noises.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.027 SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building construction or
alteration without a special permit from the Village Clerk; and whenever the
removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a special permit from the Clerk
shall be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.028 SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person doing any construction, altering or
wrecking work in the village to do the work with proper care for the safety of
persons and property.
   (B)   Warnings, barricades and lights shall be maintained whenever necessary
for the protection of pedestrians or traffic; and temporary roofs over
sidewalks shall be constructed whenever there is danger, from falling articles
or materials, to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall move any building on, through or over any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without having obtained a
permit therefor from the Village Board.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed route and the number of days it is
intended that the building should occupy any portion of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.041 APPROVAL FEE.
   Upon approval of the intended route by the Village Board, a fee of $50 for
each day or fraction thereof that it is intended that the building shall occupy
any such portion of any such public place shall be paid to the Village Clerk
and the permit issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.042 BOND.
   Every person applying for a permit under this subchapter shall submit with
his or her application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be
approved by the Village Board, conditioned on his or her compliance with all
the provisions of this subchapter, and agreeing to pay and to hold the village
harmless from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building
or structure moved.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.043 LIGHTS AND WARNINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is
being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Police Department
so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street so
blocked.
   (B)   The persons moving any building through the streets shall keep warning
signs and lanterns or lights at night on the building so as to guard against
any person or vehicle from colliding with it.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.044 WIRES.
   (A)   Cutting.
      (1)   Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or cables of
a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or franchise
ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall be given.
      (2)   If no such terms apply, then the President shall estimate the
expense of fixing the wires and bond to be given to cover this.
   (B)   Fire alarm wires. When any such moving building shall approach any
fire alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal of such
building, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Chief of the Fire
Department at least 24 hours before reaching such wire or pole so that they may
be removed or cared for by the authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLBOARDS
§ 150.055 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. Any signboard or similar structure, the sole or primary purpose
of which is the use for displaying of advertisements or notices. The term
BILLBOARD shall expressly exclude any such signbord or similar structure owned
and used by the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 2023-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 150.056 ADMINISTRATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and every member of the Police
Department to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, and all such officers
are hereby authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 150.057 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful to construct a billboard within the
village without having first secured a permit therefor from the Village Board;
provided that this section shall not be construed to require a permit for the
construction of a billboard or signboard other than a roof sign, the total
display area of which does not exceed 15 square feet, and provided that no
license issued hereunder shall be construed to authorize the construction or
maintenance of a billboard which extends over, or on or above any street,
alley, sidewalk or public place. The fee for a permit to construct any such
billboard shall be $10.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for such permits shall be made in writing
to the Village Clerk. Each application shall state thereon the name of the
owner of the premises, the name of the person, firm or corporation constructing
the billboard, and specifications showing the size, material and manner of
construction of the billboard.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.058 NUISANCES.
   Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous because of insecure
construction or fastening with resultant danger of falling, or because it is an
extreme fire hazard and in fact a nuisance, is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and may be abated as such.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.059 CONSTRUCTION, SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Wind pressure. Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed
so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least 30 pounds per square foot
of area; provided that billboards which are placed upon roofs must be so
constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure of 40 pounds per
square foot of area.
   (B)   Height above ground. Every billboard must be so constructed as to
leave an open space of at least two and one-half feet between the bottom of the
display area and the ground. This open area may be filled in with lattice work
or other ornamental design which does not close off more than two-thirds of any
square foot of such open area. Billboards constructed on property on which
there is a properly established building line must be built entirely in back of
this building line, and no permit shall be issued for the construction of any
billboard on any lot which is subject to a proper building line restriction, if
the billboard is to be constructed in violation of the building lines
restriction.
   (C)   Fireproof construction. It shall be unlawful to construct any
billboard of over 15 square feet in area anywhere in the fire limits unless the
face of such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
   (D)   Location, frontage consents.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall locate, build, construct, operate or maintain
any billboard in any block in the village where a majority of the houses
abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for
residence purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on such streets on both sides
within such block.
         (b)   The term BLOCK as used in this section shall be construed to
mean and include that portion of the street between the two intersections with
other public streets nearest the specified location on each side provided that
if, on either or both sides of such location there is no such intersection
within 300 feet of the center of the specified location the block shall be
considered as terminating at a point 300 feet from such center. The term STREET
as used in this section shall be construed to mean and include such highways as
have been dedicated by either common law or statutory dedication as public
streets and are actually in use as such; and the term street shall not be
construed to include or mean merely service highways which are commonly known
as alleys.
      (2)   Frontage consents once secured and filed shall not be withdrawn and
need not be renewed excepting on the construction of a new billboard to replace
the one for which the consents were granted. But where consents are required
and have been obtained for the construction of one or more billboards on any
particular lot, additional consents for any additional billboards on the same
lot shall be secured and filed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   Illumination. The wiring of illuminated billboards and signboards must
comply with the provisions of the ordinances of this village relating to
electrical wiring.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.060 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Fire escape obstructions. It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain
any billboard in such a position as to obstruct any fire escape or any window
or door leading thereto; and no billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape.
   (B)   Roof signs.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to construct any billboards on the roof
of any building or structure of any but incombustible materials. All such roof
signs or billboards must be so constructed that there is at least four feet of
space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of the roof at all sides
and ends.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to construct any roof sign or billboard on
the roof of any building which is unable to withstand the additional weight and
wind pressure imposed by such construction.
         (c)   All roof signs and billboards which are constructed on buildings
which are not to be constructed entirely of fireproof materials shall be so
constructed and braced that the supports of such signs or billboards shall bear
directly on the masonry walls of such buildings or upon the steel girders which
are supported by the masonry walls.
      (2)   The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly
and properly painted at least once each two years, unless they are galvanized
or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion.
   (C)   Billboards against buildings. It shall be unlawful to construct any
billboard, a majority of the display area of which is within four feet of any
building unless such billboard is constructed of noncombustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.075 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Includes conductors and equipment installed for the
utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, but does not
include radio apparatus or equipment for the wireless reception of sounds and
signals nor ordinary household appliances, such as toasters, vacuum cleaners
and washing machines and does not include apparatus, conductors and other
equipment installed for and by public utilities, including common carriers,
which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in
their operations as public utilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 150.076 RULES ADOPTED.
   There are hereby adopted as safe and practical standards for the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment in the village:
   (A)   The rules and regulations of the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
as contained in the code known as the National Electric Code, and as approved
by the American Standards Association and as last published; and
   (B)   The rules and regulations regarding the installation, alteration and
use of electrical equipment last adopted by the electric supply company now
supplying the village, and as last published and filed with the Illinois
Commerce Commission, a copy of said code and the last mentioned rules and
regulations being now on file in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 150.077 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Committee on Buildings shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.090 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. To mean and include:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
because of its condition or lack of doors or windows is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
§ 150.091 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any such dangerous building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.092 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.093 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Condition declared. Whenever the Committee on Buildings shall be of
the opinion that any building or structure in the village is a dangerous
building, the Committee shall file a written statement to this effect with the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Notice. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be served
upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered
mail or by personal service.
      (1)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be
in a dangerous condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and that
the condition must be remedied at once.
      (2)   Such notice may be in the following form:
 
   To              (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as            .
   You’re are hereby notified that (described building) on the premises above
described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by               .
   The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition.)
   You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
village will proceed to do so.
 
   (C)   Village action. If the person receiving such notice has not complied
therewith, or taken an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee
finding that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when
this notice is served upon such person by personal service or by registered
mail, the Committee on Buildings may, upon orders of the Village Board, proceed
to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.094 FIRE DAMAGE.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the village as
hereinbefore prescribed by ordinance, which has or may be damaged by fire,
decay or other cause to the extent of 50% of its market value at time of
destruction, shall be torn down and removed. Upon written notice by the
Committee on Buildings filed with the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall notify the
Village Board of the receipt of such notice. The Village Board shall then
appoint three persons to determine whether or not such building or structure
has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value. A copy of the notice of the
appointment of this Board of three persons to determine the damage shall be
served upon the owners of the premises by personal service or by registered
mail to his or her last known address. Such notice shall be in substantially
the following form:
 
   To                 
   You are hereby notified that                         has determined that the building owned by you at
              located within the fire limits of the Village has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value and that a board of three persons has been appointed to
verify this finding which board will hold its first meeting in the Village Hall on the      day of
          at the hour of        o’clock, at which time it will determine whether this finding is correct.
   If this finding is verified by the Board, you must tear down and remove the said building.
 
   (B)   If the said Board members determine that the building in question has
been damaged to the extent of 50% of its market value at time of destruction,
it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down or remove the said building
within 20 days after the finding of the Board; and it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit such building to be occupied after such finding.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.105 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any depression in the ground, either temporary or permanent,
or a container of water, either temporary or permanent, and either above or
below the ground in which water of more than 30 inches in depth is contained
and which is used primarily for the purpose of private or residential bathing
and swimming.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-1) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018)
§ 150.106 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or enlarge a
swimming pool not enclosed in a permanent building in the village except in
accordance with the following regulations.
   (B)   Swimming pools which, prior to May 7, 2018, have previously received
the permit described in §
150.107 , paid all requisite fees and were otherwise in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter existing immediately prior to such date shall
continue to be governed by and subject to such prior regulations. However, any
enlargement or other altering of the footprint of the swimming pool shall
result in the swimming pool being governed by and subject to the regulations of
this subchapter in effect on and after May 7, 2018.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-2) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.107 PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, enlarge or
alter any swimming pool unless a building permit has first been obtained from
the Village Clerk. No permit shall be issued for any swimming pool unless the
following requirements for location (§
150.108 ), fencing (§
150.109 ), electrical (§
150.110 ) and water supply (§
150.111 ) are met. The permit fee shall be $50.
   (B)   Application shall be on forms provided by the Village Clerk and shall
be accompanied by plans drawn to scale showing the following:
      (1)   Swimming pool dimensions and volume of water in gallons;
      (2)   Location and type of waste disposal system;
      (3)   Location of swimming pool on lot, distance from lot lines and
distance from structure; and
      (4)   Fencing and landscaping plan, or a combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-3) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-
7-2018)
§ 150.108 LOCATION.
   No portion of a swimming pool outside a building shall be located a distance
less than eight feet from any side or rear property line, or building line, and
not occupy more than 30% of the total rear yard. Pumps, filters and water
disinfection equipment installation shall be located at a distance not less
than eight feet from any side property line.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-4) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018)
§ 150.109 FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Swimming pools, within the scope of this section or not enclosed
within a permanent building, shall be completely enclosed by a fence of
sufficient strength to prevent access to the swimming pool and shall be not
less than four feet in height, so constructed as not to have voids, holes or
openings larger than four inches in one dimension.
      (2)   Gates or doors shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-
latching device for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times when
not in actual use.
   (B)   Permanent access from grade to aboveground swimming pools having
stationary ladders, stairs or ramps shall have not less than equal safeguard
fencing and gates.
   (C)   A three feet exclusion zone shall be maintained between the pool and
the required fence at all times.
   (D)   If the pool has a deck attached, the deck also is required to maintain
a three feet exclusion zone from the required fence. If this cannot be achieved
then, a fence not less than four feet is required on the deck.
   (E)   The wall of a house or building faced to a swimming pool may be
incorporated as a portion of such fence.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-5) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018; Ord. 2020-09, passed - -2020)
§ 150.110 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed and used in
conjunction with a swimming pool shall be in conformance with the state laws
and village ordinances regulating electric installations.
   (B)   The distance from electrical power wires and meter base shall be a
minimum of ten feet. No wires are allowed above or within ten feet of the
outside diameter of the pool.
   (C)   If overhead flood or other artificial lights are used to illuminate
the swimming pool at night, such lights shall be shielded to direct light only
on the swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018; Ord. 2020-09, passed - -2020)
§ 150.111 WATER SUPPLY.
   Every person in possession of a lot or premises in the village on which a
swimming pool is located shall have such swimming pool conform with the
following regulations.
   (A)   (1)   No swimming pool in excess of 2,500 gallon capacity shall be
installed or used without a recirculating and filtering system having a minimum
hourly capacity equal to the pool volume divided by eight.
      (2)   Sufficient filter area shall be provided to filter the entire
swimming pool volume in 18 hours at a rate not exceeding three gallons per
square foot of filter area per minute.
   (B)   No water from any swimming pool shall be discharged directly into any
sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-7) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018)
§ 150.112 SWIMMING POOL MAINTENANCE.
   No swimming pool shall be so operated or maintained as to create a nuisance,
a hazard, an eyesore, or otherwise to result in a substantial adverse effect on
neighboring properties, or to be in any other way detrimental to public health,
safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-8) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018)
§ 150.113 ENFORCEMENT, RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   (A)   No more than 24 feet of water shall be allowed in the swimming pool
until a satisfactory final inspection is completed pursuant to division (C)
below.
   (B)   Upon any inspection, in the event the swimming pool does not comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the swimming pool must be drained
immediately and any deficiencies remedied prior to re-filling the pool.
   (C)   (1)   The village health inspector and the village building inspector
are hereby charged with the duty of inspecting swimming pools and enforcing
this chapter.
      (2)   During the permitting and construction process, the swimming pool
will be inspected a minimum of three times, as follows: once prior to issuance
of the permit; once during construction; and a final inspection upon completion
of construction.
      (3)   The final inspection shall be required before the swimming pool may
be filled in excess of the restriction set forth in division (A) above. For
this purpose, they or their inspectors are hereby authorized to enter any
premises within the village and inspect any swimming pool at any reasonable
hour for compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-9) (Ord. 90-2, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-7-
2018)
BUILDING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 150.125 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   All buildings and structures and all parts thereof shall be
maintained in a safe, sanitary and nonhazardous manner. All means of egress,
devices, safeguards and equipment shall be kept in good working order.
      (2)   The exterior of all premises and the condition of all buildings,
structures and components thereon shall be maintained so as to prevent and
repair deterioration.
   (B)   The appearance of all buildings, structures and components thereon
shall reflect a level of maintenance consistent with the maintenance standards
set forth herein so as to ensure that the property itself may be preserved
safely, that hazards to public health and safety be avoided and that
neighboring property values not be diminished.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-1) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 150.126 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maintenance of structure. Each owner and occupant shall keep all
exterior components of every structure in good repair, including, but not
limited to, walls, roofs, chimneys, cornices, gutters, downspouts, drains,
porches, steps, landings, fire escapes, exterior stairs, windows, shutters,
doors, storefronts, signs, marquees and awnings.
   (B)   Surface covering of structures. All surfaces shall be covered with a
protective coating such as paint, plastic siding, or other material which
preserves the structure and does not contribute to deterioration.
   (C)   Surface deterioration of structures. All surfaces shall be maintained
free of deterioration, including, but not limited to, broken glass, loose or
missing shingles or siding, crumbling brick, stone and mortar, and peeling,
scaling or deteriorated paint.
   (D)   Overhanging structures.
      (1)   Overhanging structures, including canopies, marquees, signs,
awnings, exterior stairways, fire escapes and other structures with overhanging
extensions shall be maintained in good repair, be securely anchored to the
structure and be protected from rust and other signs of decay by application of
a weather protective material such as paint.
      (2)   Nonoperative or broken electrical signs shall be repaired or
removed. All obsolete signs and sign structures shall be removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-2) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 150.127 MAINTENANCE OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Each accessory structure shall be subject to the maintenance standards set
forth above.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-3) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 150.128 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS.
   (A)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition, including, but not limited to, steps, walks, driveways,
fences, retaining walls, trees, shrubs, grass and weeds.
   (B)   All fences, retaining walls or similar structures shall be firmly
anchored to the ground and maintained in good structural repair.
   (C)   Wooden elements or other elements subject to deterioration from
weathering shall be maintained with chemicals or paint to preserve the element
and to retard deterioration.
   (D)   Weeds and grasses shall be kept trimmed from becoming overgrown.
   (E)   Trees and shrubs which have branches projecting into the public right-
of-way, including public sidewalk, public places or public highways, shall be
kept trimmed to prevent interference with any person or vehicle lawfully using
the right-of-way.
   (F)   All yards, courts or lots shall be kept free of accumulation of trash,
garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk and other obnoxious or offensive
materials or substances which may cause a fire hazard or may act as a breeding
place for vermin or insects.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-4) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.129 MAINTENANCE AFTER CASUALTY DAMAGE.
   Within a period of 30 days after casualty damage to any premises, the owner
and operator shall take the following steps:
   (A)   Contract for the repair and restoration of damaged areas and removal
of debris; and
   (B)   Contract for demolition and removal of any part of the premises not to
be repaired and restored and for the removal of debris in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-5) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-20-2004)
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
§ 150.140 DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Detached accessory structures may be located within the rear and side
yard of a property as long as the structure complies with all requirements
contained in this subchapter and the village’s zoning regulations.
   (B)   Detached accessory structures are not permitted within the front yard
of a property.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 150.141 REGULATIONS.
   The following additional regulations shall apply to detached accessory
structures within the village limits.
   (A)   No accessory structure shall be used for dwelling purposes in a
residential zoning district. Accessory structures may be used for dwelling
purposes to the extent permissible in business and manufacturing zoning
districts as may be allowed in those districts under the village’s zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Accessory structures shall be located no closer than five feet from
the nearest wall of the principal building or structure measured from vertical
wall to vertical wall.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be located outside of any portion of the
property that is subject to an easement.
   (D)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 15 feet in height to the peak of
the roof and in no case shall the accessory structure exceed the height of the
principal building or structure.
   (E)   Overhead doors to accessory structures shall not exceed nine feet in
height.
   (F)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 900 square feet.
   (G)   The total square footage of an accessory structure shall not exceed
30% of the square footage of the rear yard of the property.
   (H)   Accessory structures shall not be placed on raised blocks or piers,
and must instead rest directly on grade.
   (I)   Any wall of the accessory structure located between five and ten feet
from the nearest wall of the principal building or structure shall be
constructed so that the impacted wall is of one-hour fire rated construction.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.142 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application shall be submitted to the village prior to construction
of any accessory structure.
   (B)   The application shall include:
      (1)   The application for a building permit pursuant to §
150.171  and payment of the applicable fee;
      (2)   Building plans including a wall section, all elevations of the
structure, a floor plan, an indication of all electrical and plumbing work,
wall and structure heights and the foundation elevation; and
      (3)   A grading plan may be required.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 150.143 INSPECTIONS.
   The following inspections must be completed to the satisfaction of the
village building inspector:
   (A)   Inspection of the slab or foundation of the accessory structure, prior
to the pouring of concrete;
   (B)   An inspection of the frame of the accessory structure; and
   (C)   A final inspection upon completion.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-4-2018)
MOBILE HOME STANDARDS
§ 150.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Act, 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as amended from time to time, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   MOBILE HOME. Any structure placed in accordance with this subchapter that
meets the definition of a MANUFACTURED HOME as set forth in the Act. The term
MOBILE HOME shall not include modular homes and their support systems.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.156 PERMITS.
   (A)   Every mobile home to be moved on or off a lot shall be required to
secure a building permit and a permit for moving buildings and pay all
applicable fees associated therewith.
   (B)   A building permit and payment of the applicable fee shall be required
for any additions constructed to the mobile home.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.157 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All mobile homes placed upon any lot within the corporate limits of
the village after November 18, 2019, must have been manufactured not more than
ten years prior to the date of the application for a building permit allowing
placement of the mobile home upon said lot and must comply with the
construction standards set forth in the Act, which compliance shall be verified
by the presence of the permanently attached HUD seal/emblem on the mobile home.
If the mobile home is a multi-wide unit, each unit must have such a HUD seal/
emblem.
   (B)   In addition, no mobile home shall be placed or remain upon any lot
unless said mobile home shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   No mobile home shall be located closer than five feet to the side
or rear lot lines or closer than ten feet to any public street or alley or to
another building structure.
      (2)   Each mobile home shall have all wheels, tongue and hitch mechanisms
removed or retracted.
      (3)   The base of the mobile home shall be completely enclosed commercial
skirting. All skirting shall be weather resistance, shall be uniform in
construction, style and color, and shall be compatible with the siding of the
mobile home.
      (4)   The minimum size of the mobile home shall be 800 square feet,
exclusive of any porch, garage or other non-dwelling space.
      (5)   Each mobile home shall have smoke detectors, carbon monoxide
detectors, and fire extinguishers installed and in good working condition in
accordance with manufacturer specifications and in accordance with all
applicable codes, regulations and ordinances.
      (6)   A mobile home shall be used only as a residential dwelling unit. No
mobile home shall be used as a storage building or for any other commercial or
business use. The area underneath a mobile home shall not be used for storage.
      (7)   All mobile homes shall be securely anchored in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
      (8)   (a)   All mobile homes shall be maintained so as to be structurally
sound, waterproof and with all features and systems properly installed, in good
working condition, and in compliance with all applicable codes, regulations and
ordinances.
         (b)   A mobile home lawfully placed, in full compliance with all
applicable codes, regulations and ordinances, and existing on November 18,
2019, may be continued in use even though such mobile home does not conform to
the construction and installation requirements of this subchapter; provided,
that there shall be no physical change, alteration or improvement to the mobile
home other than routine maintenance and repair.
      (c)   If there is a physical change, alteration or improvement to the
mobile home other than routine maintenance and repair, then the mobile home
shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.158 MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Except as hereafter set forth in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to locate or maintain a mobile home upon any lot within the
village except for lots located within a licensed mobile home park.
   (B)   The Village Board may grant a permit authorizing a mobile home to be
maintained upon a lot that is not located with a licensed mobile home park,
including the replacement of an existing mobile home, based upon evidence
presented to the Village Board in each case demonstrating that the following
standards of hardship have been satisfied:
      (1)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances such that
the denial of the permit would result in impractical difficulties and impose
exceptional hardships due to special and unusual conditions which are not
generally found on other properties in the village;
      (2)   The permit, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood and will not be a substantial detriment to adjacent property;
      (3)   The permit, if granted, will not substantially increase the
congestion in public streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values in the
neighborhood; and
      (4)   The granting of the permit will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property and improvements within the
neighborhood.
   (C)   (1)   In connection with granting such a permit, the Village Board may
impose such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefitted as may be
necessary to reduce or minimize the effect of the granting of the permit on
other property in the neighborhood and to better promote the public welfare.
      (2)   Violation of such conditions or restrictions shall be unlawful.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.159 CONVERTING TO A BUILDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other
transporting devices from any mobile home or to otherwise affix the mobile home
permanently to the ground or place the same on a foundation so as to prevent
ready removal of such mobile home, unless a permit to do so is first obtained
from the village as required for the construction of a new building.
   (B)   Any such alteration shall be construed as converting the mobile home
into a building and will subject the building to the requirements of the zoning
and building ordinances of the village for single-family dwellings and any
other applicable codes, regulations and ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-18-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.170 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Committee on Buildings and any lawfully
appointed deputies to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter 150.
   (B)   The Committee on Buildings is hereby empowered to make such
inspections as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of these provisions,
and to make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used, for
the purpose of seeing if they comply with the requirements of this title.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 150.171 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
construct, enlarge, alter, remove or demolish any building or structure within
the fire limits of the village, including alterations for roofing, siding or
windows, unless a building permit is first obtained from the village in
accordance with this
Chapter 150.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
construct, enlarge, alter, remove or demolish any building or structure outside
of the fire limits of the village, or where the roofline of any building or
structure is relocated or altered, unless a building permit is first obtained
from the village in accordance with this section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of this
Chapter 150, a STRUCTURE refers to anything that is constructed or built from
different interrelated parts with a fixed location on the ground, and shall be
deemed to include, but not be limited to, garages, porches, patios, storage
sheds, decks and fences.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a paved driveway or sidewalk
shall not constitute a structure.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk
and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate showing the
work to be done; such plans shall be verified by the signature of either the
owner of the premises or by the architect or contractor in charge of
operations.
   (C)   Approval of plans. Such applications with the plans shall be referred
to the Committee on Buildings, who shall examine the same to determine whether
the proposed operations will comply with the ordinance provisions relating
thereto. Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned by the Committee on
Buildings. No permit shall be issued except after approval of the plans and
payment of the fee herein provided for. Only the Committee on Buildings has the
authority to approve and issue such permit.
   (D)   Building permit fees. The fees for building permits shall be as
follows:
Permit Type Fee
Permit Type                                         Fee
Demolition permit                                   N/A
Fence permit                                        $50 each
Garage, patio, porch, storage, shed and deck        $0.15 per square foot
Minimum fee for any permit (with the exception of   $50
demolition permits)
Multi-unit construction                             $125 per unit
New commercial or industrial construction including $0.10 per square foot
additions
New home construction including additions           $0.15 per square foot
Swimming pools (when permit needed)                 $50 per unit
 
   (E)   Residential mobile home trailer park license and permit fee. The
annual license and permit fee for a mobile home trailer park, as provided in
Ordinance 0-71-2, shall be $100 plus $5 for each mobile home trailer within
said park. Any increase in the number of mobile home trailers within the park
shall be immediately reported to the Village Clerk and the additional fee shall
be paid before the mobile home trailer is connected to any water or sanitary
facilities.
   (F)   Miscellaneous. No permits shall be granted under this section if the
applicant owes any outstanding balance to the village under the village code or
if a citation for a village code violation has been issued and is pending
against the applicant. In the event work is commenced on any permit-required
project prior to the approval of a permit, the cost of the building permit to
be obtained pursuant to division (D) above shall be increased $200 above the
applicable fee.
   (G)   Duration. The building permit shall become void one year from the date
of issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein. A building permit may be renewed
without fee upon review by the Committee on Buildings before it becomes void.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 2003-11, passed 4-7-2003; Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-
2004; Ord. 2015-18, passed 8-3-2015; Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 2019-
03, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 150.172 VARIATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the approved plans and
specifications deposited with and approved by the Committee on Buildings unless
amended plans and specifications showing such proposed alteration or variation
are first filed with and approved by the Committee on Buildings; if such
variation involves an increase in the total cost of the work a statement to
this effect shall be made and the necessary additional fee shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 150.173 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Boundaries.
      (1)   Limits designated. That portion of the village within the following
described boundaries is hereby designated as and to be the fire limits of the
village:
All that area bounded by Cherry Street on the south; Illinois Central Railroad
tracks on the east; State Street on the north and the alley between 1st Avenue
and 2nd Avenue on the west.
      (2)   Boundaries extended. The fire limit boundaries of the village shall
be extended as follows:
From East Cherry Street to State Street, the fire zone shall be extended east
from Chestnut Street to Oak Street.
   (B)   Exterior coverings. It shall be unlawful to construct or erect any
building or structure in the fire limits unless the exterior walls and roof of
such building or structure are covered or constructed with nonflammable
material; provided, that this shall not operate to prohibit the construction of
wooden porches, balconies or ornamental work no higher than the second story
within such limits.
   (C)   Repairs. It shall be unlawful to repair any existing frame building
within the fire limits after the same shall be damaged by any cause to 50% of
its value. Any existing frame building within the fire limits may be brick
veneered.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 89-8, passed 12-4-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Adoption
§ 151.01 ADOPTION.
   The village hereby adopts Ordinance 2010-10, as amended, to regulate
development in floodplain areas and is incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 10-18-2010)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
Streets And Public Ways
   
152.01   General provisions
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Bond
   
152.04   Specifications
   
152.05   Barricades
   
152.06   Responsibility of property owners
   
152.07   Appointed officers
   
152.08   Letting of contracts
   
152.09   Nonconforming construction
   
152.10   Nuisance
   
152.11   Special taxation
   
152.12   Financial liability
   
152.13   Restrictions and regulations
   
152.14   Signs and awnings
   
152.15   Sump pump discharge
   
152.16   Grass clippings, leaves and all landscape vegetation
Subsidewalk Space
   
152.30   Permit required
   
152.31   Permit applications
   
152.32   Permit fees
   
152.33   Bond
   
152.34   Conveyance of premises
   
152.35   Construction and maintenance
   
152.36   Use provisions
Driveways
   
152.50   Permit required
   
152.51   Permit fee
   
152.52   Construction
   
152.53   Repairs
 
   
152.99   Penalty
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 152.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the village
shall be under the supervision of the Committee on Streets and Alleys. It shall
have supervision over all work thereon and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances of the village) and is hereby
authorized to enforce such village ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue the
necessary permit if it appears that the terms of this chapter are being
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 BOND.
   Each applicant shall furnish a cash bond or a bond with a corporate surety
in such amount not less than $100 or more than $1,000 as may be determined and
approved by the Chairperson of the Committee on Streets and Alleys, or by the
President and Board of Trustees, conditioned to indemnify the village for any
liability, loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of
doing the same, and shall furnish evidence acceptable to the Chairperson of the
Committee on Streets and Alleys, or the President and Board of Trustees that
the person who is to do the actual construction work has in force satisfactory
public liability and property damage insurance in limits of at least $100,000
for injuries to each person, $300,000 for injuries in each accident and $50,000
for damage to property in each accident, covering all damages occasioned by or
in any manner resulting from such construction work.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.04 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with the
specifications then currently on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.05 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk
or other public place, or making an excavation in any such place shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of
such work; such barricades shall be protected by lights at nighttime.
      (2)   Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury; and any person properly maintaining any such opening or excavation
while the same remains open shall guard it by proper barricades and lights.
   (B)   Disturbing barricades. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. It shall be the responsibility of the lot owner to
construct the initial sidewalk across his or her property. It shall also be the
responsibility of the lot owner to maintain, repair and to replace said
sidewalks when deemed necessary by the Chairperson of the Committee on Streets
and Alleys.
   (B)   Responsibility for repair. The owner of the land abutting the street
dedication or right-of-way upon which a sidewalk exists shall keep and maintain
such sidewalk in a safe condition and a good and thorough state of repair at
all times. Nothing in this subchapter shall be so construed as to relieve such
owner from the duty and obligation hereby expressly enjoined and imposed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.07 APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   The Village Engineer is hereby designated as the officer to take charge of
the construction or repair of the sidewalk and to prepare a special tax list,
and the Village Clerk is hereby designated as the officer to collect the
special tax, all in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-84-3.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.08 LETTING OF CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for such construction or repair shall be let in accordance with
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-84-7.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.09 NONCONFORMING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk shall be constructed in the village in violation
of, or contrary to, any of the provisions contained in this subchapter, it
shall be the duty of the Village Engineer forthwith to notify, in writing, the
owner of the property abutting upon such sidewalk, or the person last paying
the general taxes on such property, to change, rebuild or reconstruct such walk
to conform with this subchapter.
   (B)   If such owner or person shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with
the requirements of such notice, the village may proceed, by special ordinance,
with the construction of such walk in accordance with the provisions and
specifications herein contained in place of the walk so built in violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 NUISANCE.
   Any sidewalk constructed contrary to this subchapter is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and the Village Engineer is hereby authorized to remove or take
up the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 SPECIAL TAXATION.
   If the owner, after construction and repair of the sidewalk by the village,
fails to pay the cost of such construction and the repair forthwith, the
Village Engineer and other officials of the village shall proceed immediately
to collect the cost of such construction or repair from such owner by a special
taxation, by taking the various actions, procedures and steps for collection
provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-84-1, all pertinent and applicable provisions of such
statute being hereby considered a part of this subchapter and being hereby
specifically incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.12 FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   If at any time any injury or property damage shall be sustained by any
individual, or the village shall be subjected to any damage liability, in
consequence of any defect, obstruction, lack of repair or dangerous condition
in or on any sidewalk, or in consequence of any other violation of this
subchapter, the owner whose duty it is to maintain such sidewalk, or the person
causing such defect, obstruction, condition or violation, shall be liable for
such injury, damage or liability, to the village or to the person injured or
damaged.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 152.13 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Damage. No person shall make or cause any break, damage or hole in or
to any sidewalk.
   (B)   Coasting or sledding. No person shall engage in coasting or sledding
on any sidewalk.
   (C)   Driving. No person shall drive or stand any vehicle on, over or across
any sidewalk or parkway, except for driving upon an established driveway across
such sidewalk or parkway.
   (D)   Excavations. No person, making any excavation upon or adjoining any
sidewalk, or having the same in charge, shall leave the same open and
unprotected at night so as to endanger the safety of persons or animals.
   (E)   Garbage and refuse. No person shall deposit or place any refuse or
garbage upon any sidewalk.
   (F)   Writing. No person shall paint, print or write on any sidewalk without
permission of the Village Board.
   (G)   Sharp materials. No person shall deposit, place or leave upon any
sidewalk any broken glass, crockery, nails, tacks, iron cuttings, wire or other
articles likely to wound, injure or damage any human, beast or vehicle.
   (H)   Openings. Every opening or stairwell into any coal hole, chute,
cellar, basement, vault or other hole adjacent to, under or in any sidewalk,
shall be at all times kept covered with a substantial iron plate or cover,
having a rough surface and set even with the top of the sidewalk, or shall be
surrounded by iron railing and gate. The construction or maintaining of any
such opening or stairwell may at any time be stopped or prevented by the
village. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the use of any such opening or
stairwell for its intended purpose, using all proper precautions for the safety
of the public, and only opening the same in the daytime while in actual use.
   (I)   Projections. No person shall construct or place any portico, porch,
door, window, railing, areaway or steps, which shall project into or over any
sidewalk, without permission of the Village Board.
   (J)   Downspouts. No person shall erect or maintain any downspout or pipe
from the eaves or roof of any building, constructed in such a manner as to
discharge rain water or surface water upon any sidewalk.
   (K)   Flooding. No person shall dam, obstruct or change the natural current
of any watercourse, or dam or obstruct any ditch, sewer, drain or culvert, so
as to flood or damage any sidewalk.
   (L)   Snow removal. The owner and occupant of land abutting the street
dedication or right-of-way upon which a sidewalk exists, shall keep and
maintain such sidewalk free and clear of ice and snow. Such persons shall
remove snow from such sidewalk within 12 hours after the cessation of any
snowfall.
   (M)   Scooters, skateboards, and roller skates.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride a scooter,
skateboard, or roller skates in any of the following places:
         (a)   On any sidewalk in the business district of the village, being
all that part of the village described as follows:
            1.   1st Avenue between Cherry Street and White Oak Road;
            2.   Walnut Avenue between Cherry Street and State Street;
            3.   Main Street between 1st Avenue and Chestnut Avenue; and
            4.   Cherry Street between 1st Avenue and Walnut Avenue.
         (b)   On any public property where signs are posted prohibiting such
use, such as parking lots; and
         (c)   On private property where a sign prohibiting such items has been
posted by the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property.
      (2)   Operators of scooters, skateboards or roller skates shall yield the
right-of-way to other pedestrians using other public sidewalks and shall not
otherwise endanger or interfere with pedestrian traffic on those sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13) (Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 90-12, passed 10-15-
1990) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.14 SIGNS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   Permits required. No person shall erect or maintain any sign or
signboard, or rigid canopy over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
in the village, without having first obtained a permit therefor as is herein
provided. Permits for such signs shall be issued by the Clerk, and shall
designate the location of the proposed sign.
   (B)   Height above walk. The lowest part of any such sign or canopy, or of
any nonrigid awning or support thereof which extends over any public way, shall
be at least eight feet above the level of the walk or public way over which it
extends, but no such sign shall be maintained over any public way used by
vehicles if any part of it or of its support is less than 15 feet above the
level of such public way.
   (C)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Streets and
Sidewalks to inspect at regular intervals every sign, canopy or awning which
extends over any sidewalk, street, alley or other public way. If any such sign
or canopy is found to be insecurely fastened so as to constitute a hazard to
the public, the owner of the sign or owner or occupant of the premises shall be
notified, in writing, to correct such defect. If within ten days the defect is
not corrected, the Committee shall cause the removal of the sign or canopy.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.15 SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water from a sump pump to
be discharged directly upon any village sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-15) (Ord. 96-6, passed 8-5-1996) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 GRASS CLIPPINGS, LEAVES AND ALL LANDSCAPE VEGETATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit grass clippings, leaves or
other vegetation onto any public street or public sidewalk within the village.
It shall be the responsibility of the individual property owner, resident and/
or the yard maintenance person to ensure that deposits are not made on public
streets and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-16) (Ord. 2008-09, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
SUBSIDEWALK SPACE
§ 152.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit. It shall be unlawful to use any vault, space, room or
structure under any street or sidewalk in the village without having first
obtained a permit therefor as is herein required. Such permits shall be issued
by the Village Clerk, and shall be signed by the Village President and the
Village Clerk. No such permit shall be transferred excepting in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Present uses. Any person using or maintaining any such vault, space,
room or structure shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter within
ten days after this subchapter comes into effect as an ordinance. The Village
Board may authorize the Committee on Streets and Sidewalks to close up any
vault, space, room or structure for which such a permit has not been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-1)
§ 152.31 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a permit to use or maintain a vault, space, room or
structure under any street or sidewalk in the village shall be made in writing
to the Village Clerk, and shall state thereon specifically the size of the
space intended to be used or maintained, and the purpose for which it is to be
used. Each application shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by
the regulations contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-2)
§ 152.32 PERMIT FEES.
   The annual fee for such permits shall be $5 for each 4,000 cubic feet or
fraction thereof included in the vault, room, space or structure used or
maintained under the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-3)
§ 152.33 BOND.
   Each applicant shall file with the application a bond in the sum of $10,000,
with surety to be approved by the Village Board conditioned to save the village
harmless from any liability resulting from or caused by such vault, room or
structure. Whenever in the opinion of the Village Board, the sureties on such
bond become insolvent or unlawful, different sureties may be required by order
of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-4)
§ 152.34 CONVEYANCE OF PREMISES.
   Whenever any premises abutting on any such vault, room, space or structure
for which a permit has been issued shall be conveyed, the grantee or transferee
must make application for a transfer of the permit to him, her or it, and must
furnish a bond as is required in §
152.33 . A fee of $2 shall be required for such transfer, and upon payment of
the fee and the full compliance with the contents hereof a new permit shall be
issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-5)
§ 152.35 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Construction. Such vaults, rooms, spaces or structures shall be firmly
constructed so as to support the sidewalk or street over it or them, with the
maximum load which the sidewalk or street will carry, with a margin of safety
of 50% over its maximum load or weight. The Committee on Streets and Sidewalks
shall inspect all such rooms, spaces, vaults or structures to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Maintenance of sidewalk area. The surface of the sidewalk over any
such structure shall be kept free from snow and ice, and free from all dirt and
obstruction of any kind, by the person holding the permit, and such person must
keep the sidewalk over such structure in good repair.
   (C)   Openings. 
      (1)   All openings through the sidewalk or street into any such vault,
space, room or structure shall be kept covered and guarded.
      (2)   If the opening is a manhole or trap door, an adequate, strong metal
cover must be provided and must be equipped with a rough surface so that there
will be no danger of any pedestrian slipping on it.
      (3)   If a stairway is provided, the stairway must be properly guarded
with a railing at least three feet high to protect pedestrians from injury.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-6)
§ 152.36 USE PROVISIONS.
   No such vault, space, room or structure shall be used for the storage of
explosives or flammable liquids, nor shall a cesspool be located therein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-7) Penalty, see §
152.99
DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across any
sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be
accompanied by the required fee.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for all such construction permit shall be $5.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 152.52 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Grade surface. No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to
leave a steep, sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade
shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It
shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where the same
crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and
hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the
grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level.
   (B)   Materials. Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete
or of such other material as may be approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 REPAIRS.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 .
   (B)   For a first offense of §
152.13 (M), a written warning shall be issued to the offender and no fine shall
be imposed. If the offender is under the age of 18 years, a parent or guardian
of the offender shall be notified and shall be handed or mailed a copy of the
written warning.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
   (C)   (1)   Any permit issued under the provisions of §§
152.30  through
152.36  may be revoked by order of the Village Board for a violation of any of
the provisions of §§
152.30  through
152.36 .
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
152.30  through
152.36  shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-8)
(Ord. 89-1, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 90-12, passed 10-15-1990; Ord. 96-6, passed
8-5-1996; Ord. 2008-09, passed 10-6-2008)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Generally
   
153.02   Requirements for stormwater management
   
153.03   Erosion and sediment control
   
153.04   Protection of special management areas
   
153.05   Requirement submittals for stormwater management permits
   
153.06   Long term maintenance
   
153.07   Applicability, interpretation and legal provisions
   
153.08   Administration
   
153.09   Security and fees
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Title, statutory authority.
      (1)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Forreston Stormwater Management Ordinance”.
      (2)   The Village Board adopts this chapter pursuant to its authority to
regulate stormwater management and govern the location, width, course and
release rate of all stormwater runoff channels, conduits, streams and basins in
the village. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to
the village by 65 ILCS 5/11-110-1 et seq.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The principal purpose of this chapter is to promote effective,
equitable, acceptable and legal stormwater management measures by establishing
reasonable rules and regulations for development.
      (2)   Other purposes of this chapter include:
         (a)   Managing and mitigating the effects of urbanization on
stormwater drainage throughout the village through planning, appropriate
engineering practices and proper maintenance;
         (b)   Protecting the public health safety and reducing the potential
for loss of human life and property from flood damage;
         (c)   Protecting the public from degradation of water quality;
         (d)   Controlling sediment and erosion in and from stormwater
facilities, development and construction sites and reducing and repairing
stream bank erosion;
         (e)   Requiring planning for new development to provide for water
resource management, taking into account natural features such as vegetation,
wildlife, waterways, wetlands and topography in order to reduce the probability
that new development will create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion or
degrade the quality of groundwater and surface waters;
         (f)   Reducing flood damage by requiring appropriate and adequate
provisions for site runoff control, especially when the land is developed with
a large amount of impervious surface;
         (g)   Encouraging the use of stormwater storage and infiltration of
stormwater in preference to stormwater conveyance;
         (h)   Lessening the taxpayer’s burden for flood-related disasters,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations caused by increased stormwater runoff quantities from new
development and redevelopment;
         (i)   Protecting and improving surface water quality and promoting
beneficial uses of
ponds, lakes, wetlands and streams by reducing point source and nonpoint source
discharges of pollutants;
         (j)   Requiring regular, planned maintenance of stormwater management
facilities;
         (k)   Requiring control of stormwater quality at the most site-
specific level and preventing unauthorized or unmitigated discharge of flow off
site; and
         (l)   Requiring strict compliance with and enforcement of this
chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land predominantly used for agricultural purposes.
      ALLOWABLE PEAK DISCHARGE. The rate of flow allowed to escape beyond the
confines of the property.
      APPLICABLE ENGINEERING PRACTICE. Procedures, methods or materials
recommended in standard engineering textbooks or references as suitable for the
intended purpose.
      APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application under this chapter.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in a given year (100-year event).
      BFE and BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The highest water surface elevation that
can be expected during the base flood.
      BMP and BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. A measure used to control the adverse
stormwater-related effects of development, and includes structural devices (for
example, swales, filter strips, infiltration trenches and site runoff storage
basins), designed to remove pollutants, reduce runoff rates and volumes, and
protect aquatic habitats, and nonstructural approaches, such as public
education efforts to prevent the dumping of household chemicals into storm
drains.
      BUFFER. An area of predominantly deeply rooted native vegetative land
adjacent to channels, wetlands, lakes, ponds, rivers or streams for the purpose
of stabilizing banks, reducing contaminants, including sediments in stormwater
that flow to such areas.
      BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof; a building includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or prefabricated building.
      BULLETIN 71. The Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the Midwest, by Floyd A.
Huff and James R. Angel of the Illinois State Water Survey (1992). Furthermore,
rainfall distributions shall be in accordance with the minimums as set forth in
Table 1: Sectional Mean Frequency Distributions for Storm Periods of 5 Minutes
to 10 Days and Recurrence Intervals of 2 Months to 100 Years in Illinois.
Durations shall be based upon the 24-hour storm event rainfall intervals for
Sectional Code 01 (Northwest).
      CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or human-made drainageway which has a definite bed and
bank or shoreline, in or onto which surface water, groundwater, effluent or
industrial discharges flow.
      CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its beds or banks, and includes damming, rip-rapping
(or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening, relocating, lining and
significant removal of bottom or woody rooted vegetation, but does not include
clearing of debris or removal of trash or dredging to previously documented
elevations and side slopes.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An excavated, hydrologically and hydraulically
equivalent volume of storage created to offset the loss of existing flood
storage.
      CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
      CRITICAL DURATION. The duration of a storm event that results in the
greatest peak runoff.
      DAM. Any obstruction, wall embankment or barrier, together with any
abutments and appurtenant works, constructed to store or divert water or to
create a pool (not including underground water storage tanks).
      DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE. The volume contained below a closed contour on a
one-foot contour interval topographical map, the upper elevation of which is
determined by the invert of a surface gravity outlet.
      DETENTION FACILITY. A facility which stores stormwater runoff with a
normally dry basin and a gravity release.
      DEVELOPER. A person who creates or causes a development.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   The term DEVELOPMENT means any human-made change to the land and
includes:
            1.   Preparation of a plat of subdivision for three or more
parcels;
            2.   The construction, reconstruction, repair or replacement of a
building or an
addition to a building;
            3.   Redevelopment of a site for commercial and/or industrial
purposes;
            4.   The installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges
or similar projects;
            5.   Drilling and mining;
            6.   The construction of levees, walls, fences, dams or culverts;
            7.   Channel modifications, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving or other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
            8.   The storage of materials and the deposit of solid or liquid
waste;
            9.   Any wetland impact; and
            10.   Any other activity of humans that might change the direction,
height or velocity of flood or surface waters, including the extensive removal
of vegetation.
         (b)   The term DEVELOPMENT, however, does not include:
            1.   Maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, such as re-
roofing or resurfacing of roads, driveways or parking areas where there is no
increase in elevation;
            2.   For agricultural uses, maintenance of existing drainage
systems for the limited purpose of maintaining cultivated areas and crop
production;
            3.   For agricultural uses, improvements undertaken pursuant to a
written NRCS conservation plan; or
            4.   Maintenance, construction or rehabilitation of certain village
capital improvements infrastructure projects which may include, but are not
limited to, street and/or roadway pavement removal and replacement,
resurfacing, overlays, widening, curb and gutter installation, storm sewers,
drainage systems and the removal/replacement or addition of sidewalks or other
pedestrian paths.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The land area above a given point that may contribute
runoff flow at the point from rainfall.
      EROSION. The process whereby soil is detached by the action of water or
wind.
      FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland
Security, or its duly authorized designee.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters
or the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from any
source. Refer to additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. A frequency normally expressed as a period of years,
based upon a percent chance of occurrence in any given year from statistical
analysis, during which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be
equaled or exceeded, as in the two-year flood frequency has a 50% chance of
occurrence in any given year and the 100-year flood frequency has a 1% chance
of occurrence in any given year. Refer to additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway. Refer to additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FLOODPLAIN. That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Refer to additional requirements in Chapter 151 of this code of
ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FLOODWAY and DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. The channel, on-stream lakes and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or channel which is needed to
store and convey the critical duration 100-year frequency flood discharge with
no more than a 0.1 foot increase in flood stage due to the loss of flood
conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10% increase in velocities. Refer to
additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FLOODWAY CONVEYANCE. The measure of the flow carrying capacity of the
floodway section. Refer to additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      FREEBOARD. The increment of height added to the 100-year design water
surface elevation to provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in
calculations, unknown local conditions, wave action and unpredictable effects
such as those caused by ice or debris jams. Refer to additional requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances (Flood Control Regulations).
      HYDROGRAPH. The graph produced by a table of ordinates showing the flow
rate, or discharge, with respect to time for a given location in a drainage
area.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water, including its dynamics,
composition and distribution in the atmosphere, on the surface of the earth,
and underground.
      IDNR-OWR. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources, or its duly authorized designee.
      IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, or its duly
authorized designee.
      IMPERVIOUS AREA. Those areas which contain concrete or asphalt ground
cover, pavements, structures, rooftops, compacted aggregate surfaces, compacted
soils, curbs or other areas of significant impermeability as may be determined
by the Village Engineer.
      INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
      MAJOR STORMWATER FACILITY. That portion of a stormwater facility needed
to store and convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor stormwater system.
      MASS GRADING. Development in which the primary activity is a change in
topography affected by the movement of earth materials.
      MINOR STORMWATER FACILITY. All infrastructure including curb, gutter,
culverts, conduits, roadside ditches and swales, storm sewers, and subsurface
drainage systems intended to convey stormwater runoff at less than a ten-year
frequency.
      MITIGATION. Measures taken to offset negative impacts from development
and includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects that
stormwater drainage, as a result of development activities, has on the public
health, safety and welfare.
      ON-STREAM STORAGE FACILITIES. Site runoff storage facilities located
within the floodway.
      OVERLAND FLOW PATH. A design feature of the major stormwater system which
carries flows in excess of the minor stormwater system design capacity in an
open channel or swale, or as sheet flow or weir flow over a feature designed to
withstand the particular erosive forces involved.
      PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a
channel or conduit.
      POSITIVE DRAINAGE. Provision for overland paths for all areas of a
property including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the state under the
Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act of 1989, 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
      PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the state under
the Illinois Professional Land Surveyor Act of 1989, 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
      RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer or professional land surveyor representing the final record of the
actual in-place elevations, locations of structures and topography of proposed
improvements.
      REGIONAL STORAGE FACILITY. A site runoff storage facility that stores
stormwater from multiple parcels of land.
      REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain depicted on maps recognized by
IDNR-OWR for regulatory purposes.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The floodway depicted on maps recognized by IDNR-OWR
for regulatory purposes.
      RETENTION FACILITY. A facility which stores stormwater runoff with a
normally wet basin and with or without a gravity release.
      RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits hydraulically moved soils,
debris and other materials on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
stormwater drainage systems.
      SITE. All of the land contemplated to be part of a coordinated
development of one or more parcels.
      SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY and STORAGE FACILITY. A human-made structure
or area for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff with a controlled
release rate.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA. A floodplain,
regulatory floodplain or floodway, wetland, wetlands mitigation area, stream,
river or other water body.
      STORMWATER FACILITY. All ditches, channels, conduits, bridges, culverts,
levees, ponds, natural and human-made impoundments, wetlands, riparian
environments, tiles, swales, sewers or other natural or artificial structures
or measures which serve as a means of draining surface water and groundwater
from land.
      TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the
most hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
      TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All of the land surface area that contributes runoff
to a given point.
      USACE. The United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Forreston, Illinois, or its representatives.
      WATERSHED. All land drained by, or contributing to, the same stream,
lake, stormwater facility or draining to a point.
      WETLAND RETENTION AREA. That area of the retention facility that contains
permanent shallow waters that commonly support aquatic beds and emergent plants
(erect, rooted, non woody plants that are mostly above water). These areas
shall be generally free from non-native and noxious seed and plant growth. The
Village Engineer, upon review of a landscape plan, shall make final
determination as to the appropriateness of the proposed plantings.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Permit required, application for permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development, as defined herein, without first
obtaining a stormwater management permit from the village. The Village Clerk
shall not issue a permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements contained herein.
      (2)   Every application for a stormwater management permit shall be
accompanied by a drainage plan as required herein and such other information as
may be required by the village for the proper enforcement of this chapter. Each
applicant shall submit the following information, depending on development
size, to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met.
      (3)   The submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the
environmental characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of
the development on water resources both on site and downstream, and the
effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan in managing stormwater runoff. The
applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing, grading, drainage
and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance with the drainage
plan.
   (B)   General stormwater requirements.
      (1)   No development shall increase flood elevations or decrease flood
conveyance capacity upstream or downstream of the site.
      (2)   Stormwater facilities shall be functional, where practicable,
before any other construction begins on a site.
      (3)   The design of any development shall incorporate the following
specific planning principles, where practicable.
         (a)   Impervious surfaces are the minimum necessary to satisfy the
needs of the project and the current zoning regulations.
         (b)   Where feasible, plans allow sufficient right-of-way and easement
widths so that stormwater runoff can be conveyed in vegetated swales. Storm
sewers may be used for conveyance of nuisance flows and where conveyance in
vegetated swales is impractical.
         (c)   Retention and infiltration of stormwater runoff should be used
to the extent practicable to reduce the volume of stormwater runoff and the
quantity of runoff pollutants.
         (d)   If retention facilities are impractical or are not used, then
detention facilities shall be provided.
         (e)   Drainage plans use best management practices.
         (f)   Sites are designed to maximize the use of vegetated filter
strips and swales to effectively filter stormwater pollutants and promote
infiltration of runoff. Wherever practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces
is directed onto vegetated filter strips and swales before being routed to a
storm sewer or site runoff storage facility.
   (C)   Site runoff requirements.
      (1)   Stormwater facilities shall be required and designed so that runoff
exits the site at the point where it exited prior to development (unless a
change is required and approved in writing by the Village Engineer) and in a
manner so as not to increase flood damage downstream. Concentrated discharges
from new developments must enter conveyance systems capable of carrying the
design flow without increasing flood damage, erosion or maintenance costs
downstream.
      (2)   Major and minor stormwater facilities shall be sized to convey
runoff from the tributary watershed under fully developed conditions.
      (3)   Major stormwater facilities shall be sized to convey the base flood
without causing additional flood damage.
      (4)   Stormwater facilities shall properly incorporate and be compatible
with existing subsurface and surface drainage systems. Designs shall not cause
damage to existing drainage systems or to existing adjacent or tributary land
uses. The following principles and requirements shall be observed in the
design.
         (a)   Off-site outfall: existing subsurface and surface drainage
systems shall be evaluated with regard to their capacity and capability to
properly convey site runoff storage facility release without damage to
downstream structures and land uses. If the outfall drain tile and surface
drainage systems prove to be inadequate, it will be necessary to modify the
existing systems or construct new facilities which will not conflict with the
existing systems and will not impact existing land uses.
         (b)   On site: existing agricultural drainage systems shall be mapped
to the extent practicable. If any existing agricultural drainage tiles continue
to upland watersheds, the developer must maintain drainage service so as not to
impede the flow of water from the existing drainage tile. The existing upstream
agricultural drainage tile may be connected into the proposed on-site drainage
system if the invert of the existing drainage tile is higher than the proposed
100-year high water elevation of the stormwater facilities. The proposed
stormwater facilities shall not discharge into existing agricultural drainage
systems.
         (c)   Stormwater and site runoff storage facilities: the stormwater
and site runoff storage facilities shall be designed to control the peak rate
of discharge from the property for the two-year, 24-hour and 100-year, 24-hour
events to levels which will not cause an increase in flooding or channel
instability downstream when considered in aggregate with other developed
properties and downstream drainage capacities. The allowable peak discharge
from events less than or equal to the two-year, 24-hour event shall not be
greater than 0.04 cubic foot per second (cfs) per acre of property drained. The
allowable peak discharge from events less than or equal to the 100-year, 24-
hour event shall not be greater than 0.20 cfs per acre of property drained. In
no case shall the release of site runoff water exceed the existing runoff rate
from the development area. Redevelopment or expansion of existing development
parcels and impervious areas may instead use the alternate method of site
runoff storage areas in divisions (C)(4)(l) and (C)(4)(m) below.
         (d)   The allowable peak discharges for both storms listed in division
(C)(4)(c) above shall take into consideration undetainable areas. If areas of
the property cannot be detained because of site limitations, the undetained
discharge shall be subtracted from the allowable peak discharge to determine
the allowable peak discharge from the detention or retention facility.
         (e)   1.   Design runoff rates shall be determined using event
hydrograph methods.
            2.   Acceptable event hydrograph methods are HEC-HMS, HEC-1 (SCS
runoff method), TR-20 or TR-55. Design runoff rates for minor conveyance
systems may be calculated using the Rational Method.
         (f)   All design runoff calculations shall utilize Bulletin 71
rainfall amounts for given storm frequencies. All design runoff calculations,
except TR-55, shall utilize Bulletin 71 median time distributions for given
storm frequencies. If TR-55 is used, the SCS Type II time distribution shall be
used.
         (g)   The minor stormwater system shall be designed to safely pass the
ten-year recurrence interval up to and including the 24-hour storm event
duration as per Bulletin 71. The developer shall provide an overland flow route
to pass storms greater than a ten-year frequency. All areas of the property
must provide an overland flow route that will pass the runoff from the 100-year
event at a stage at least one foot below the lowest foundation grade in the
vicinity of the flow path. Overland flow paths designed to handle flows in
excess of the minor drainage system capacity shall provide drainage easements
at least 20 feet in width.
         (h)   If streets are to be used as part of the major or minor
stormwater systems, ponding depths shall not be greater than the elevation of
the top of curbs and shall not remain flooded for more than eight hours for any
event less than or equal to the 100-year event.
         (i)   Culvert crossings shall be designed according to this chapter,
unless stricter requirements apply from other governmental agencies. Sizing of
culvert crossings shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as headwater
and tailwater conditions on the culvert.
         (j)   Transfers of waters between watersheds (diversions) shall be
prohibited except when such transfers will not violate the provisions of
division (B) (General Stormwater Requirements) above and are otherwise lawful.
         (k)   1.   All developments shall incorporate all best management
practices required under the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 through 1376,
and as required under §
153.03  (Erosion and Sediment Control) of this chapter.
            2.   The developer is responsible for obtaining an NPDES permit
from the IEPA if the development meets the requirements of this regulation.
         (l)   1.   Redevelopment or expansion of impervious area, building
and/or site coverage on existing development parcels of less than one-half acre
in size, with more than 50% existing impervious areas, shall be exempt from the
requirements of the site runoff storage facilities in this section except in
circumstances where the existing public or private storm sewer or drainage
system is incapable of sufficiently handling the increased runoff from this
development, a special flood hazard area exists, or the site drains into
property or a drainage system under the jurisdiction of a state or federal
agency that may require a permit.
            2.    In such cases detention shall be required to store that
portion of the runoff exceeding the outlet capacity or as may be required by
the jurisdictional permitting agency.
         (m)   1.   Redevelopment or expansion of impervious area, buildings
and/or site coverage shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter for
parcels with retention areas designed for the entire subdivision or
development.
            2.   In all other cases, the redevelopment or expansion of
impervious areas, buildings and/or site coverage shall provide site runoff
storage facilities for either:
               a.   The entire expanded site and/or buildings at a peak
discharge rate not to exceed 0.30 cfs per acre of land drained; or
               b.   Only the increase in impervious area lot coverage and
buildings, at a peak discharge rate not to exceed 0.20 cfs per acre drained;
whichever is less restrictive.
            3.   In cases where the existing storm sewer or drainage system is
incapable of sufficiently handling the increased development, additional
stormwater storage shall be required for that portion of the runoff exceeding
the outlet capacity.
         (n)   Eligible redevelopment or expansion areas are still subject to
division (F) (Fee in Lieu of Stormwater Site Runoff Storage Facilities) below.
   (D)   Site runoff storage requirements (detention/retention).
      (1)   Event hydrograph routing methods such as HEC-1, HEC-HMS, TR-20 or
TR-55 using SCS curve number methodology shall be used to calculate design
runoff volumes for all site runoff storage facilities. Event methods shall
incorporate the following assumptions:
         (a)   A normal antecedent moisture condition (AMC=2) shall be assumed
as a minimum;
         (b)   Appropriate rainfall distributions from Bulletin 71 shall be
utilized except that SCS Type II distribution is acceptable with TR-55 only;
         (c)   Twenty-four-hour duration storm with a 50% probability (two-
year) of occurrence in any one year as specified by Bulletin 71 sectional
rainfall statistics; and
         (d)   Twenty-four-hour duration storm with a 1% probability (100-year)
of occurrence in any one year as specified by Bulletin 71 sectional rainfall
statistics.
      (2)   The design maximum storage to be provided in a site runoff storage
facility shall be based on the runoff from the 100-year, 24-hour event and
reservoir routing (also called level pool).
      (3)   Hydraulic computations for the release structure must take into
account backwater and tailwater conditions on the site and receiving stream
caused by the five-year storm event.
      (4)   Storage facilities shall be designed and constructed with the
following characteristics.
         (a)   Water surface depths two feet above the base flood elevation
will not damage the storage facility or other site improvements.
         (b)   The storage facilities shall be accessible and easily
maintained.
         (c)   All design site runoff storage volume shall be provided above
the seasonal high groundwater table or the invert elevation of the groundwater
control system.
         (d)   Storage facilities shall facilitate sedimentation and catchment
of floating material. Unless specifically approved by the Village Engineer,
concrete-lined low flow channels shall not be used in the site runoff storage
basins.
         (e)   Storage facilities shall minimize impacts of stormwater runoff
on water quality by incorporating best management practices.
         (f)   Storage facilities shall maximize the distance between site
runoff storage inlets and outlets to the maximum extent possible.
         (g)   Storage facilities with single pipe outlets shall have a minimum
inside diameter of 12 inches. If design release rates necessitate a smaller
outlet, structures such as perforated risers or flow control orifices shall be
used. Orifices shall have a minimum diameter of four inches in which case the
storage volume of the stormwater facility shall be calculated using the release
rate generated by the constructed outlet structure.
         (h)   Detention facilities shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants (i.e., but not limited to oil/grease, grit, sediments, organic
matter and debris) to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and, as much as
feasible, available for multiple uses.
         (i)   Detention facilities shall incorporate velocity dissipation
devices to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets and to minimize re-suspension
of pollutants.
         (j)   Detention facilities shall be designed such that the portion of
the bottom area which is intended to be dry shall have standing water no longer
than 48 hours for any runoff event less than the 100-year event. Underdrains
directed to the outlet may be used to accomplish this requirement. Grading
plans shall clearly distinguish the wet portion of the basin bottom from the
dry portion. Ground slopes in the bottom of dry detention facilities shall be
1.0% or steeper.
         (k)   Underground detention: stormwater may be detained in underground
pipes, tanks or reservoirs meeting the following requirements:
            1.   Access to all chambers shall be provided for maintenance
purposes;
            2.   Positive gravity outlet shall be provided; and
            3.   Void space volume of the bedding material shall not be
considered as part of the storage volume.
         (l)   Parking lot detention: parking lots may be used for temporary
storage of water, provided vehicles are not endangered and standing water does
not exceed six inches for a time not exceeding 24 hours.
      (5)   Storage facilities located within the regulated floodplain shall
comply with all state and federal regulations and shall store the required
amount of site runoff to meet the release rate requirement under all streamflow
and backwater conditions up to the ten-year flood elevation on the adjacent
receiving watercourse.
      (6)   Storage facilities located within the regulated floodway shall
comply with all state and federal regulations and shall be evaluated by
performing detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analysis and shall provide a net
watershed benefit.
      (7)   Site runoff facilities may be located off site if the off-site
storage facility meets all of the requirements of the chapter, adequate storage
capacity in the off-site facility is dedicated to the development and the
development includes means to convey stormwater runoff to the off-site storage
facility.
      (8)   Retention facilities shall be designed and constructed with the
following characteristics.
         (a)   Retention facilities shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants (including, but not limited to, oil, grease, grit, sediments,
organic matter, and debris), to be safe, and to be aesthetically pleasing.
         (b)   The minimum depth shall be at least five feet deep, below normal
water level, excluding near shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is
to be provided, the minimum depth shall be at least ten feet, below the normal
water level over a minimum of 25% of the bottom area to prevent winter freeze-
out.
         (c)   Above the normal water elevation, the side slopes shall be no
steeper than five to one (horizontal to vertical).
         (d)   At normal depth, permanent pool volume shall be equal to or
greater than the runoff volume from its watershed for the two-year event.
         (e)   Safety ledges shall be provided at least four feet in width at a
depth not greater than two feet below normal water level.
         (f)   Subsurface drainage systems may be designed as a component of
the retention facility to assist in infiltration in accordance with the
following criteria.
            1.   The retention volume shall be discharged at a rate no greater
than that required to empty the calculated retention volume within five days of
the storm event.
            2.   No such subsurface drainage pipe shall be located within ten
feet of drainage pipes directly connected to the retention facility.
         (g)   1.   Wherever the water depth is less than three feet the
retention facility shall be constructed by over excavating the required
retention volume by one foot and replacing such volume with one foot of topsoil
suitable for growing wetland plants (wetland retention area). Topsoil used
shall be generally free from nonnative and noxious seed bank.
            2.    Native wetland plantings shall be introduced and shall not be
dominated by or contain cumulatively more than 25% cover of the following
species: buckthorn (Rhamunus cathartica or frangula); reed canary grass
(Phalaris arundinacea); purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria); or giant reed
(Phragmites australis). Within six months of the completion of the development
,a qualified wetland review specialist retained by the developer shall verify
compliance with this section in a report submitted to the Village Engineer.
Wetland retention areas may be provided along 35% of the periphery of the
retention area. The buffer width shall not exceed 20 feet and shall have a
slope no greater than 5% graded and draining towards the retention facility.
         (h)   Maintenance of wetland retention areas shall be provided for in
the required “maintenance of stormwater facilities agreement”.
      (9)   The stormwater facilities shall be designed to protect the safety
and well-being of all children and adults coming in contact with the system
during storm runoff events.
      (10)   The top of berm or area, not along the sideslopes, surrounding the
detention and/or retention facility shall be designed and graded as level as
practicable to prevent accidental falls into the basin and for stability and
ease of maintenance. Side slopes of detention facilities and open channels
shall not be steeper than four to one (horizontal to vertical).
      (11)   All detention or retention facilities shall be provided with an
overflow structure capable of safely passing excess flows at a stage at least
two-feet above the base flood elevation. The design flow rate of the overflow
structure shall be equivalent to the 100-year inflow rate.
      (12)   Velocities throughout the stormwater facilities shall be
controlled to safe and non-erosive levels taking into consideration rates and
depths of flow.
      (13)   The stormwater facilities shall be designed to minimize and
facilitate maintenance.
      (14)   To effectively reduce runoff volumes, infiltration practices
including basins and trenches may be utilized according to the following
practices.
         (a)   Infiltration practices should be located on soils in hydrologic
soil group “A” or “B” as designated by the United States Natural Resources
Conservation Service.
         (b)   Infiltration basins and trenches designed to recharge
groundwater shall not be located within 75 feet of a water supply well or a
building foundation.
         (c)   A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove coarse
sediment from stormwater flows before they reach the infiltration basins or
trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more than 48 hours over 80%
of a dry basin’s bottom area for the maximum design event to be exfiltrated.
The bottom of infiltration facilities shall be a minimum of four feet above
seasonally high groundwater and bedrock.
   (E)   Accommodating flows from upstream tributary areas.
      (1)   Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be
considered in the design of the property’s stormwater facilities. Whenever
practicable, flows from upstream areas that are not to be detained should be
routed around the basin being provided for the site being developed.
      (2)   When there are upstream tributary areas not meeting the storage and
release rates of this chapter, regional detention on the applicant’s property
shall be explored by the applicant by following the following steps:
         (a)   Compute the storage volume needed for the applicant’s property
using the release rates, the property area and the procedures described in this
chapter;
         (b)   Identify the upstream areas tributary to the applicant’s
property that do not meet the storage and release requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   Compute the storage volume needed for the applicant’s property
plus the upstream tributary area. If tributary areas are not developed, then a
reasonable fully developed land cover, based on local zoning, shall be assumed
for the purposes of computing storage;
         (d)   Once the necessary storage is computed, the village may choose
to pay for oversizing the applicant’s site runoff storage facility to bring the
upstream areas into compliance, thereby making the applicant’s site runoff
storage facility a regional storage facility; and
         (e)   If regional storage is selected by the village, then the storage
facility shall be designed according to the combined property area. The
applicant’s responsibility shall be limited to the storage volume computed for
his or her property only. If regional storage is not selected by the village,
then the storage facility shall be designed according to just the applicant’s
property and all flows from the upstream area shall be routed around the
applicant’s storage facility. If the applicant must route flows from the
upstream tributary area through his or her storage facility and the upstream
tributary areas exceed one square mile in size, the storage facility shall be
considered as an on-stream storage facility.
      (3)   When there are upstream tributary areas meeting the storage and
release rates of this chapter, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant’s storage facility, or be routed through the applicant’s storage
facility if it is the only practicable alternative. The required storage for
the applicant’s property shall be computed in accordance with this chapter.
However, if the village decides to route upstream tributary flows through the
applicant’s storage facility, the final design of the storage facility shall be
based on the combined total of the applicant’s property plus the tributary
areas draining through it. The applicant shall demonstrate using hydrologic and
hydraulic modeling that at no time will the release rate from the applicant’s
property exceed the allowable release rate for his or her property alone.
   (F)   Fee in lieu of stormwater site runoff storage facilities.
      (1)   The developer may pay a fee in lieu of constructing the stormwater
runoff detention/retention facilities, required by this section, when
authorized by the Village Engineer. The fee shall be $92,000 per acre foot
(volume) of the required site runoff storage facility and may increase from
time to time as approved by the Village Board. The developer shall submit to
the Village Engineer, for approval, a professional engineer’s drainage analysis
and report of the site runoff storage requirements in accordance with this
chapter associated with the detention/retention improvements.
      (2)   The developer will not have the option to pay a fee in lieu of
constructing the stormwater detention facility if, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, undetained runoff from the development may adversely impact
an adjacent or downstream property(s) or the other requirements of divisions
(C)(4)(l) and (C)(4)(m) above have not been met.
      (3)   All fees paid in lieu of constructing stormwater site runoff
storage facilities shall be payable to the village prior to the recording of
the final plat, or if no plat is required, prior to the issuance of a building
or development permit. The funds collected in accordance with this division (F)
shall be held by the village to be used for the construction of stormwater
management or special flood hazard area mitigation projects designed to serve
the immediate or future needs of the village to reduce stormwater flooding,
control or mitigate erosion, enhance stormwater quality, maintain or improve
existing or future stormwater facilities, drainage or conveyance systems.
Furthermore, these funds may be used for other costs associated with stormwater
management projects such as land acquisition, and professional service fees,
including, but not limited to, engineering studies, design and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.03 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Required, standards.
      (1)   Erosion and sediment control planning shall be part of the initial
site planning process. In planning the development of the site, the applicant
shall consider the sensitivity of existing soils to erosion and topographical
features such as steep slopes, stream corridors and special management areas
which must be protected to reduce the amount of erosion and sedimentation which
occurs. Where appropriate, existing vegetation shall be protected from
disturbance during construction by fencing or other means.
      (2)   Standards and specifications for erosion and sediment control
measures shall be in accordance with the Illinois Urban Manual (latest
edition), Illinois Department of Transportation Standard Specifications, and
the village’s national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control plans shall be in accordance with §
153.05  (Required Submittals for Stormwater Management Permits) of this chapter
and shall include the following:
         (a)   Detailed construction phasing plan identifying erosion and
sediment control measures to be in place for each phase shall be submitted;
         (b)   Erosion and sediment control measures to be installed initially
prior to stripping existing vegetation or mass grading shall be indicated on
the plans;
         (c)   Permanent stabilization measures shall be indicated on the
erosion and sediment control plan; and
         (d)   A temporary stilling/sedimentation basin should be constructed
at each major inlet to a detention or retention facility. The volume of the
basis should be at least 500 cubic feet per acre of impervious surface in the
drainage area. Side slopes of the basins shall be no steeper than three to one
(horizontal to vertical) and basin depths should be at least three feet deep to
minimize re-suspension of accumulated sediment. A detention facility may be
utilized as a temporary stilling/sedimentation basin for its tributary drainage
area, as long as the basin is over excavated to provide the additional volume.
The required detention volume must be maintained at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.04 PROTECTION OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Disclaimer. Nothing in this chapter purports to alter or affect the
regulatory program administered by the IDNR-OWR. Anything in this chapter to
the contrary notwithstanding, if under the rules and regulations administered
by the IDNR-OWR a submittal need not be made to the IDNR-OWR, or a review,
approval or permit from the IDNR-OWR need not be obtained, then nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to impose a requirement that such a submittal be
made or such a review, approval or permit be obtained from the IDNR-OWR.
Similarly, if the IDNR-OWR has delegated its regulatory authority to another
entity, then anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, or
required by such entity, such submittal shall be made or such review, approval
or permit shall be obtained from such entity.
   (B)   Statewide and regional permits. Developments that qualify for any of
the self-issuing statewide or regional permits administered by the IDNR-OWR
(Statewide Permits Numbers 1 through 14 and Regional Permit Number 3) are
similarly permitted under this division (B). The developer need only submit to
the Village Engineer such information as shall show the Village Engineer that
the development qualifies for the particular statewide or regional permit in
question under the regulations established by the IDNR-OWR for such permit and
no further submittal need be made under this division (B). All other provisions
of this chapter applicable to this development, however, continue to apply.
   (C)   Floodplain management.
      (1)   The placement of site runoff storage facilities within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged due to unreliable operation during flood
events. However, the site runoff storage requirements of this chapter may be
fulfilled by providing site runoff storage within flood fringe areas on the
project site provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   1.   The placement of a site runoff storage facility in a flood
fringe area shall require compensatory storage of one and one-half times the
volume, below the base flood elevation occupied by the site runoff storage
facility including any berms. The release from the storage facility shall still
be controlled in accordance with this chapter. The operation of the site runoff
storage facility during rainfall events and periods of high streamflow and
backwater events shall be considered in the design of the storage facility.
            2.   The applicant shall submit the necessary hydraulic and
hydrologic calculations demonstrating the proper operation of the storage
facility for all streamflow and floodplain backwater conditions.
         (b)   Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. Excavations for
compensatory storage shall be at 1.05 times the volume displaced or lost by all
other types of fill operations within the floodplain. To the extent possible,
all floodplain storage lost below the ten-year flood elevation should be
replaced below the ten-year flood elevation and all floodplain storage lost
above the ten-year flood elevation should be replaced above the ten-year flood
elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be designed and
constructed to have positive drainage and drain freely and openly to the
watercourse. Notwithstanding the forgoing, all requirements of the floodplain
shall conform to the requirements of the IDNR, FEMA and the NFIP.
      (2)   Site runoff storage facilities shall only be placed in the floodway
provided the following provisions are met.
         (a)   On-stream storage facilities are discouraged but are allowable
if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other provisions
of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the two-year and
100-year, 24-hour events from the property. If on-stream storage facilities are
used for watershed greater than one square mile, then the applicant shall use
dynamic modeling to demonstrate that the design will not increase the water
surface elevation of any properties upstream or downstream of the property.
         (b)   Impoundment of the stream as part of on-stream storage shall
meet the following provisions.
            1.   The migration of indigenous fish species which require access
to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for spawning, shall not
be prevented.
            2.   The on-stream storage facility shall not cause or contribute
to the degradation of water quality or stream aquatic habitat.
            3.   The design shall include gradual bank slopes, appropriate bank
stabilization measures, and a sediment control basin placed upstream of the
storage facility.
            4.   The design shall not involve any stream channelization or the
filling of wetlands.
            5.   The design shall include the implementation of an effective
nonpoint source management program throughout the upstream watershed which
shall include, as a minimum, runoff reduction best management practices, a
permanent sediment control basin for all development sized to hold the volume
of the two-year, 24-hour event, and a program to control nonpoint sources at
the source for prior development constructed without appropriate stormwater
best management practices.
            6.   The storage facility shall not be located downstream of a
wastewater discharge.
            7.   The storage facility shall comply with 17 Ill. Admin. Code
3702 and 3708.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.05 REQUIREMENT SUBMITTALS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   A stormwater management permit is required if:
         (a)   The project requires a building permit, is not a residential
building and the impervious area is increased on the site; or
         (b)   The project requires the approval of a plat of subdivision.
      (2)   All appropriate stormwater management related approvals and
permits, including, without limitation, an IDNR-OWR floodway/floodplain
construction permit, a United States Army Corps of Engineers 404 permit, and an
IDNR-OWR dam safety permit, if required, shall be obtained from all federal,
state and regional authorities prior to the issuance of a stormwater management
permit.
      (3)   All permit fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of a stormwater
management permit.
      (4)   The design of stormwater management facilities, calculations for
the determination of the regulatory floodway/floodplain and calculations of the
impact of development shall meet the standards of this chapter and shall be
prepared by or under the direction of, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer. The signature and seal of such professional engineer shall stand as
his or her opinion that the submittals which accompany the permit application
meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   For projects which include earth embankments which are subject
to a differential water pressure, the submittal shall include evidence that the
embankment design and construction specifications are adequate for the design
conditions. This review shall include consideration of the existing foundation
soils for the embankment, the materials from which embankment is to be
constructed, compaction requirements for the embankment, and protection of the
embankment from failure due to overtopping. Specifications for the construction
and materials for all such embankments shall be included in the submittal. When
directed by the Village Engineer, or when the impounded water pressure
differential exceeds three feet or when appropriate considering the volume of
impounded water, and water surface elevation differential to which the
embankment is subjected, these calculations may be required to be reviewed,
signed and sealed by a qualified geotechnical or registered structural
engineer.
         (b)   For structures (not including earth embankments) that are
subject to differential water pressure greater than three feet, the submittal
shall, at a minimum, be reviewed by a professional engineer. Such reviews shall
include stability of the structure under design conditions considering the
protection of downstream life and property in the event of a failure. When
directed by the Village Engineer, the calculations submitted for such
structures shall be reviewed, signed and sealed by a registered structural
engineer.
         (c)   A topographical map of the site, as-built record drawings, and
other required drawings shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional
land surveyor or professional engineer, and referenced to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum, 1929 adjustment, and any FEMA benchmarks. Plats for new
subdivisions more than ten acres in size shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer in one of the electronic formats designated by the village.
   (B)   Duration and revision of permits.
      (1)   If construction has not started within 12 months after the date of
issuance, the permit shall become null and void. If construction starts within
12 months of the date of issuance, the permit expires on December 31 of the
second year following the date of their issuance.
      (2)   If the permitted activity has begun but is not complete by the
expiration date of the permit, the permittee may submit a written request for
an extension to the Village Engineer. Upon receipt of such request, the Village
Engineer may extend the expiration date of the permit for up to two years for
permitted activities outside special management areas. Expiration dates for
permitted activities within special management areas may also be extended for
up to two years provided that the activity is in compliance with the then
current requirements of this chapter. A permittee may apply for only two
extensions before reapplication is required.
      (3)   If the permittee revises the approved plans after issuance of the
permit, the permittee shall submit the revised plans to the Village Engineer
along with a written request for approval. If the Village Engineer determines
that the revised plans are in compliance with the then current requirements of
this chapter, an amended permit may be issued.
   (C)   Application and project overview.
      (1)   The applicant shall, at a minimum, provide the following
information on the approved forms or in a format approved by the Village
Engineer:
         (a)   The names and legal addresses of all owners of the site;
         (b)   The names and legal addresses of the developer or developers
responsible for completing the development according to the plans submitted,
the terms and conditions of the permit, and the requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   The common address, legal description and parcel identification
number (PIN) of all parcels which comprise the site;
         (d)   The name of the project, area of the site in acres and the type
of development;
         (e)   A general narrative description of the development, existing and
proposed conditions and the project planning principles considered, including
best management practices used;
         (f)   Copies of all other permits or permit applications as required;
         (g)   A subsurface drainage investigation report; and
         (h)   An engineer’s estimate of probable construction cost of the
stormwater facilities and the installation and maintenance of soil erosion and
sediment control measures.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by all owners and developers
identified in division (C)(1) above and shall contain their attestation that
they have read and understand the provisions of this chapter and agree to bind
themselves to the permitting authority to comply therewith. If any time prior
to completion and final inspection and approval of the development the identity
of the persons required to be disclosed in division (C)(1) above changes, the
applicant shall immediately file an amended application containing the current
information and the permit shall be amended accordingly.
   (D)   Required submittals.
      (1)   All applicants for a stormwater permit shall provide the following
basic plan exhibits: site topographical map; general plan view drawing;
sediment/erosion control plan; and vicinity topographical map. Each exhibit may
be on more than one drawing for clarity.
      (2)   The specific information to be included on each exhibit shall be as
noted below.
         (a)   Site topographical map.
            1.   Map scale at one inch equals 100 feet (or less) and accurate
to Â±1.0 foot;
            2.   Existing and proposed contours on site (maximum contour
interval is two feet) and within 100 feet of the site (one-foot contour
interval may be required if deemed necessary by the Village Engineer);
            3.   Existing and proposed drainage patterns and watershed
boundaries;
            4.   Delineation of predevelopment regulatory floodplain and
floodway limits;
            5.   Delineation of post development regulatory floodplain and
floodway limits;
            6.   Location of cross-sections and any other hydrologic or
hydraulic computer modeled features;
            7.   Location of all on-site drain tiles;
            8.   Boundaries of all watercourses, wetlands, lakes, ponds and the
like with normal water elevations noted (show areas of wetlands to be impacted
under permit);
            9.   Location of all existing buildings and those to remain on the
site noted;
            10.   Nearest base flood elevations;
            11.   FEMA and reference benchmarks used; and
            12.   All contours used in the calculation of depressional storage
highlighted.
         (b)   General plan view drawing.
            1.   Drawing at the same scale as the site topographical map;
            2.   Existing major and minor stormwater systems;
            3.   Proposed major and minor stormwater systems;
            4.   Design details for stormwater facilities (i.e., structure and
outlet detail drawings and the like);
            5.   Scheduled maintenance program for permanent stormwater
facilities including BMP;
            6.   Planned maintenance tasks and schedule;
            7.   Identification of persons responsible for maintenance;
            8.   Proposed regulatory floodplain and floodway location (with the
base flood elevation noted);
            9.   Existing wetlands and required buffers;
            10.   All plan areas at elevations below the 100-year high water
elevation of site runoff storage facilities highlighted; and
            11.   Where a 500-year regulatory floodplain is available, the plan
limit of the 500-year floodplain.
         (c)   Sediment and erosion control plan.
            1.   Drawings at the same scale as the site topographical map;
            2.   Erosion and sediment control installation measures and
schedule;
            3.   Existing and proposed roadways, structures, parking lots,
driveways, sidewalks and other impervious surfaces;
            4.   Limits of clearing and grading;
            5.   Special management areas and proposed buffer locations located
on the plan;
            6.   Existing soil types, vegetation and land cover conditions;
            7.   List of maintenance tasks and schedule for erosion and
sediment control measures; and
            8.   The name, address and phone number of the person or persons
responsible for erosion and sediment control.
         (d)   Vicinity topographical map.
            1.   Identify all off-site areas draining into the development and
downstream to the receiving stream (a two-foot contour map is preferred at a
scale readable by the reviewer but a USGS quadrangle map is acceptable);
            2.   Identify the watershed boundaries for areas draining through
or from the development;
            3.   Identify the soil types related to hydrologic soils group,
vegetation and land cover affecting runoff upstream of the site for any area
draining through the site;
            4.   Identify the location of the site within the major watershed
(s); and
            5.   Show the overland flow path from the downstream end of the
development to the receiving stream.
   (E)   Stormwater submittal. The stormwater submittal shall include a
narrative discussion and calculations to support a finding by the qualified
review specialist that the proposed development complies with the technical
requirements of this chapter. The submittal shall consist, at a minimum, of the
following material:
      (1)   A narrative description of the existing and proposed site drainage
patterns and conditions; include description of off-site conditions which help
to identify stormwater issues considered in the design;
      (2)   A schedule for implementation of the site stormwater plan;
      (3)   On-site and off-site runoff calculations which address the
following:
         (a)   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to
calculate the hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for sizing major and minor
stormwater systems;
         (b)   Cross-section data for open channels, along with calculated
depths of flow and velocities in the channels; and
         (c)   The hydraulic grade line calculations may be required for the
design flow and base flood flow conditions, if requested by the Village
Engineer.
      (4)   Site runoff storage calculations, which address the following:
         (a)   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to
calculate the hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for the site runoff storage
facility;
         (b)   Calculations for the time of concentration and a drawing showing
the location of calculated time of concentration path;
         (c)   Calculations for the allowable release rate for the required
storm events;
         (d)   Calculations for the generation of the inflow hydrographs for
the required storm events;
         (e)   Calculations for the routing of the inflow hydrographs through
the storage facility;
         (f)   Hydraulic and hydrologic computer model input and output;
         (g)   Elevation area storage data and calculations;
         (h)   Elevation discharge data and calculations specifically related
to the outlet control structure depicted in the plans; and
         (i)   Calculations for the overflow structure capacity.
   (F)   Floodplain submittal. The applicant shall obtain approval from the
IDNR-OWR and FEMA, when required, for all new base flood and floodway
determinations or as required by these agencies. Documentation showing evidence
of approval by or application to these agencies shall be submitted with the
application. At a minimum, the following material shall be submitted for
approval with the application:
      (1)   Regulatory floodplain determination:
         (a)   Provide source of flood profile information; and
         (b)   Provide all hydrologic and hydraulic study information for site-
specific floodplain studies and floodplain map revisions.
      (2)   Floodway hydrologic and hydraulic analyses for the following
conditions:
         (a)   Existing conditions;
         (b)   Proposed conditions;
         (c)   Tabular summary of 100-year flood elevations and discharges for
existing and proposed conditions;
         (d)   Calculations used for development of the hydraulic model; and
         (e)   Hydraulic and hydrologic computer model input and output.
      (3)   Floodplain fill and compensatory storage calculations for below and
above the ten-year flood elevation up to the base flood elevation:
         (a)   Tabular summary for below and above the ten-year flood elevation
of fill and compensatory storage in the plan; and
         (b)   Special flood hazard area easements when required by this
chapter.
      (4)   Statewide and regional self-issuing permits (statewide permits
numbers 1 through 14 and regional permit number 3). Such information as shall
show that the development qualifies for the particular permit in question under
the regulations established by the IDNR-OWR.
   (G)   As-built record drawings. The permittee is required to submit as-built
record drawings of all permitted stormwater facilities. The record drawings
shall be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or professional land
surveyor who shall state that the project as constructed is substantially in
conformance with the development as permitted. Record drawings shall also be
submitted electronically in AutoCAD format version 2007 or later unless
authorized by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.06 LONG TERM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General maintenance responsibility. Unless maintenance responsibility
has been delegated to and accepted by another person under this section, the
owner shall maintain that portion of the stormwater drainage system, including
any special management areas, located upon his or her land. With the approval
of the Village Engineer, the stormwater drainage system and special management
areas, or specified portions thereof, may be:
      (1)   Dedicated or otherwise transferred to and accepted by the
permitting authority or other public entity;
      (2)   Conveyed or otherwise transferred to and accepted by a homeowners’
association, or similar entity, the members of which are to be the owners of
all the lots or parcels comprising the development; or
      (3)   Conveyed to one or more persons or in one or more undivided
interests to one or more persons.
   (B)   Transfer to permitting authority or other public entity. If any
portion of the stormwater drainage system or special management areas are to be
dedicated or otherwise transferred to the permitting authority or other public
entity under division (A) above, appropriate easements for ingress and egress
to and maintenance of such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of such
entity on the final plat.
   (C)   Transfer to homeowners association or similar association. If any
portion of the stormwater drainage system or special management areas are to be
conveyed or otherwise transferred to a homeowners’ association or similar
association under division (A) above, then:
      (1)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance of
such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of such association and the
permitting authority on the final plat;
      (2)   The association shall be duly incorporated and a copy of the
certificate of incorporation, duly recorded, and by laws, and any amendment to
either of them, shall be delivered to the Village Engineer;
      (3)   The bylaws of the association shall, at a minimum, contain:
         (a)   A provision acknowledging and accepting the association’s
obligation to maintain those portions of the stormwater drainage system and
special management areas conveyed or otherwise transferred to it under this
chapter;
         (b)   A mechanism for imposing an assessment upon the owners of all of
the lots or parcels comprising the development sufficient, at a minimum, to
provide for the maintenance of those portions of the stormwater drainage system
and special management areas conveyed or otherwise transferred to it under this
chapter; and the payment of all taxed levied thereon;
         (c)   A provision adopting the plan of long-term maintenance set forth
in the application for a stormwater management permit, with approved
amendments;
         (d)   A provision identifying the officer of the association
responsible for carrying out the obligations imposed upon the association under
this chapter;
         (e)   A provision requiring the consent of the permitting authority to
any amendment of the bylaws changing any of the provisions of the bylaws
required by this chapter; and
         (f)   A provision requiring the consent of the permitting authority to
the dissolution of the association.
      (4)   Any conveyance or other instrument of transfer delivered under
division (A)(2) above shall include a covenant affirmatively imposing upon the
association the obligations set forth in this section and the association’s
affirmative acceptance thereof.
   (D)   Conveyance to one or more persons. If any portion of the stormwater
drainage system or special management areas are to be conveyed to one or more
persons under division (A)(3) above, then:
      (1)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance of
such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of the permitting authority on
the final plat;
      (2)   The final plat shall contain a legend imposing the maintenance
obligations of this section upon the grantee and his or her successors in
interest as a covenant running with the land and incorporating by reference the
plan of long-term maintenance set forth in the application for a stormwater
management permit, with approved amendments;
      (3)   The final plat shall contain a legend reserving the right of the
permitting authority to enter the land to perform the maintenance required in
this section if the owner does not do so and to place a lien against the land
for the cost thereof; and
      (4)   Any conveyance delivered under division (A)(3) above and any
subsequent conveyance, shall include a covenant affirmatively imposing upon the
grantee the obligations, restrictions and provisions set forth in this section
and the grantee’s affirmative acceptance thereof.
   (E)   Maintenance agreement.
      (1)   Maintenance of stormwater facilities located on private property
shall be the responsibility of the owner of that property. Before any security
is released according to §
153.09 , the applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the village
in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   The maintenance agreement shall guarantee that the applicant and
all future owners of the property will maintain its stormwater facilities,
which include, but are not limited to, site runoff storage facilities
(detention/retention areas) and their inlet/outlet or orifice control
structures, best management practices, sediment/erosion control systems,
special management areas, wetland retention area plantings, and drainage
systems and/or structures which are not to be dedicated or maintained by the
village.
         (b)   The maintenance agreement shall also specifically authorize
representatives of the village to enter onto the property for the purpose of
inspections and maintenance of the stormwater facilities, sediment control
system and special management areas.
         (c)   The maintenance agreement shall be recorded with the County
Recorder.
         (d)   1.   The maintenance agreement shall include a schedule for
regular maintenance of each aspect of the property’s stormwater facilities,
which includes, but is not limited to, site runoff storage facilities
(detention/retention areas) and their inlet/outlet or orifice control
structures, best management practices and facilities, sediment/erosion control
systems, special management areas, wetland retention area plantings and
drainage systems and/or structures which are not to be dedicated or maintained
by the village.
            2.   In addition, the agreement shall provide for access to the
system for inspection by authorized personnel of the village or its
representatives.
         (e)   The maintenance agreement shall stipulate that if the village
notifies the property owner in writing of maintenance problems which require
correction, the property owner shall make such corrections within 30 calendar
days of such notification. If the corrections are not made within this time
period, the village will have the necessary work completed and assess the cost
to the property owner.
         (f)   The village has the option of requiring a bond to be filed by
the property owner for maintenance of the stormwater facilities, which include,
but are not limited to, site runoff storage facilities (detention/retention
areas) and their inlet/outlet or orifice control structures, best management
practice facilities, sediment/erosion control systems, special management
areas, wetland retention area plantings and drainage systems and/or structures
which are not to be dedicated or maintained by the village.
         (g)   1.   Since the volume of the storage facilities must be
maintained in order to be an effective tool in regulating stormwater runoff
quantity, upon written request by the village, the applicant shall be
responsible for verifying that the volume of any pond meets the permitted
volume.
            2.   Storage facility volume verification shall be performed,
signed and sealed by a professional land surveyor or professional engineer. The
village has the right to request storage volume verification at any time after
the construction is complete.
      (2)   (a)   Maintenance of stormwater facilities located on public
property, or upon easements dedicated to a public authority, shall be the
responsibility of the owner of that public property or public agency to whom
the easement is dedicated.
         (b)   Before any security is released, the applicant shall deposit an
amount equal to 100% of an approved professional engineer’s estimate of
probable cost to complete the construction of the stormwater facilities, site
runoff storage facilities, sediment control system, or special management areas
that lie within the public property or dedicated easement, into an escrow
account administered by the village to be utilized by that public property
owner or public agency for the future maintenance of the stormwater facilities,
site runoff storage facilities, sediment control system or special management
areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.07 APPLICABILITY, INTERPRETATION AND LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope. This chapter applies to all developments within the corporate
limits of the village or seeking annexation into the village. When a
development to which this chapter applies occurs within an area that is subject
to another governmental entity’s jurisdiction and that governmental entity has
a stormwater management ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive shall
apply.
   (B)   Exemptions. This chapter does not apply to developments that have been
permitted.
   (C)   Interpretation.
      (1)   This chapter shall be liberally construed to protect the health,
welfare, safety and the environment of the residents of the village and to
effectuate the purposes of this chapter and the enabling legislation.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to consent to, license,
permit to locate, construct or maintain any structure, site, facility or
operation, or to carry on any trade, industry occupation or activity.
      (3)   When provisions of this chapter differ from any other applicable
law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, the more stringent provision shall
apply.
      (4)   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative of all other laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations which relate to the subject matter
hereof and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as a limitation upon the application or enforcement
of any such law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation. To the greatest extent
possible, the provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be consistent
with the provisions of such other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or
regulations, and with each other, to the end that all such provisions may be
given their fullest application.
   (D)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection provided by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering
experience and scientific methods of study. Increased flooding may result from
causes beyond the control of any governmental authority. This chapter does not,
therefore, guarantee that areas outside the floodplain of permitted land uses
within the floodplain will be free from flooding and associated damages.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied in any manner
to create liability on the part of or a cause of action against the village, or
any elected official, or any officer, agent, employee of any of the foregoing,
or any qualified engineer review specialist or qualified wetland specialist for
any flood damage resulting from reliance on the provision of this chapter.
   (E)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter shall be severable in
accordance with the following rules.
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provision of this chapter.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge to be invalid
the application of any provision of this chapter to a particular parcel of
land, a particular structure, or a particular development, such judgment shall
not affect the application of said provision to any other land, structure or
development.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsibility for administration and enforcement. The administration
and enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Village
Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   (a)   General site grading shall not begin until the Village
Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative has certified in writing
to the applicant that any necessary site runoff storage facilities are in place
and operational. The Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized
representative will also conduct periodic inspections of the work in progress
to be certain that the stormwater facilities are being constructed as designed.
If any violations of the provisions or requirements of this chapter are noted
during such inspections, the Village Engineer shall notify the applicant in
writing of the items needing correction.
         (b)   The applicant shall have ten calendar days to make such
corrections unless given a specific extension of time if writing by the Village
Engineer. Failure to complete such corrections within the specified time period
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and the applicant shall be
considered if default of any performance surety in place with the village.
      (2)   (a)   Upon notification by the applicant that the stormwater
systems are completed, the Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized
representative shall conduct a final inspection. If the stormwater facilities
are found to contain deficiencies which require correction, the Village
Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative shall notify the
applicant in writing of the necessary corrections.
         (b)   The applicant shall correct such deficiencies within ten
calendar days unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative. Failure to
complete such corrections within the specified time period shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. Upon finding that the stormwater facilities meet the
provisions and requirements of this chapter, the Village Engineer or his or her
duly authorized representative shall issue in writing a notice of stormwater
systems completion to the applicant.
      (3)   All privately owned stormwater facilities may be inspected by
representatives of the village no less than once per year. A written report
shall be filed of the results of any inspection and a copy sent to the property
owner detailing any problems which need correction.
   (C)   Service of notices. Unless otherwise provided herein, service of any
notice or other instrument under this chapter may be made upon any person:
      (1)   By first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to address then on
file for such person, if any, or, if none, to such person’s last known address;
or
      (2)   By any method prescribed under the Illinois Code of Civil
Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-9) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 SECURITY AND FEES.
   (A)   General security requirements.
      (1)   To secure the performance of the developer’s obligation to complete
the construction of the stormwater facilities required by the stormwater
management permit, and to pay all costs, fees and charges due under this
chapter, and to fully and faithfully comply with all of the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant shall, prior to the issuance of a stormwater management
permit:
         (a)   Post the security provided in division (B) below; and
         (b)   Post the security provided in division (C) below if an erosion
and sediment control plan is required under this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall bear the full cost and responsibility of
obtaining and maintaining the security required by this chapter.
   (B)   Plan review fee. The applicant shall be responsible for paying a plan
and as-built review fee established under §
154.024  of the village’s subdivision regulations.
   (C)   Development security.
      (1)   In all cases, the applicant shall post:
         (a)   A schedule, agreed upon by the applicant and the village, for
the completion of the stormwater facilities, site runoff storage facilities,
the erosion and sediment control systems and special management areas required
by the permit;
         (b)   A statement of the estimated probable cost to complete the
construction of any stormwater facilities, site runoff storage facilities, the
erosion and sediment control systems and special management areas required by
the permit, which statement is subject to the approval of the village; and
         (c)   A surety, in a form acceptable to the village in an amount equal
to 110% of the approved estimated probable cost to complete the construction of
the stormwater facilities, site runoff storage facilities, the erosion and
sediment control systems and special management areas.
      (2)   Upon completion of the stormwater facilities, site runoff storage
facilities, erosion and sediment control systems, and special management areas,
the security may be reduced by 90% of the amount of the estimated probable cost
to complete the construction of the stormwater facilities.
      (3)   (a)   The Village Engineer may approve periodic reductions in the
amount of the security based upon the progress of construction. At no time,
however, shall more than 90% of the total security be released prior to
approval of as-built record drawings and final inspection.
         (b)   The security required by this section shall be maintained by the
applicant in favor of the permitting authority until construction has been
completed, vegetation has been established, sediment has been removed from all
stormwater facilities, as-built record drawings are received, and the final
inspection has been performed on the development and approved by the village,
at which time it shall be reduced.
         (c)   A minimum of 10% of the original amount of the security shall be
retained for a period of one year after completion of all required stormwater
facilities and erosion and sediment control systems.
   (D)   Construction inspection fee.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of the stormwater management permit, the
applicant shall post a security in the amount equal to 4% of the approved
estimated probable cost to complete the construction of the stormwater
facilities and the erosion and sediment control system.
      (2)   The security shall be posted in form acceptable to the village.
      (3)   This fee shall serve to offset the cost of plan reviews and
inspections performed in association with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-10) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Village’s inspection and maintenance authority. The village may, upon
30 days’ notice to the owner or occupant, enter upon any lands or waters within
the village for the purpose of inspecting and/or maintaining any stormwater
facilities or causing the removal of any obstruction to an affected
watercourse.
   (B)   Required inspections. Any development constructed pursuant to a
stormwater permit may be periodically inspected by the Village Engineer or his
or her representative to ensure its conformity with this chapter and the terms
and conditions of its permit.
   (C)   Offenses.
      (1)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to
comply with or resists the enforcement of any provision of this chapter
(ordinance violation), or any requirement or condition in any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter (permit violation), and, in case of a permit
violation, fails to correct such violation, omission, neglect or cease such
disobedience, refusal, or resistance after notice and re-inspection as provided
below, shall be guilty of an offense under this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever the Village Engineer determines that a permit violation
exists, he or she shall serve notice of the violation in the manner prescribed
in §
153.08 (C) to the permittee. Such notice shall state the nature of the
violation and fix a date not less than ten days after the date of the notice
when the site will be reinspected.
   (D)   Penalties, additional remedies.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of an offense under this chapter shall pay
a civil fine in an amount not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each week the
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the Village
Engineer may revoke any stormwater management permit issued to such person.
      (3)   In addition to any fine imposed or permit revocation undertaken
pursuant to this section, the Village Engineer may issue an order requiring the
suspension of any further work on the site. Such stop work order shall be in
writing, shall indicate the reason for its issuance, and shall specify the
action, if any, required to be taken in order to resume work. One copy of the
stop work order shall be posted on the site in a conspicuous place and one copy
shall be served in the manner prescribed in §
153.08 (C) upon the permittee, if any, or if none, upon the person in whose
name the site was last assessed for taxes as disclosed by the records of the
County Supervisor of Assessments.
      (4)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the village may
recover all costs or expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred in
the enforcement of this chapter.
      (5)   In the enforcement of this chapter, the village may bring any
action, legal or equitable, including an action for injunctive relief, as it
deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Subdivision Requirements
   
154.001   Jurisdiction
   
154.002   Rules
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Interpretation
   
154.005   Separability
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.020   Organization
   
154.021   Enforcement
   
154.022   Variations and exceptions
   
154.023   Amendments
   
154.024   Fees
   
154.025   Field inspection
General Requirements
   
154.040   Planning Commission requirements
   
154.041   Review of subdivisions within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the village
   
154.042   Unsuitable land
   
154.043   Dedication of land for public use
   
154.044   Reservation of public spaces and sites
   
154.045   Vacation of a plat of subdivision
   
154.046   Land divisions
   
154.047   Sanitary sewers and water mains
   
154.048   Exceptions, variations and waivers
Procedure For Approval
   
154.060   Procedure
   
154.061   Preliminary consultation
   
154.062   Filing of preliminary plat
   
154.063   Final plat
Preliminary Plats
   
154.075   Submission to Planning Commission
   
154.076   Application for approval
   
154.077   The drawing
   
154.078   Stormwater management plan
   
154.079   School district statement
Final Plats
   
154.090   Final plat may constitute all or a portion of the approved
preliminary plat
   
154.091   Application for approval
   
154.092   The final plat contents
   
154.093   Recording of final plat
Design Standards
   
154.105   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
154.106   Streets and alleys
   
154.107   Easements
   
154.108   Blocks
   
154.109   Lots
Required Improvements
   
154.120   Required improvements enumerated
 
   
154.999   Penalty
SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.001 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within
the incorporated limits of the village or within contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the village,
the subdivider thereof or his or her agent shall submit both a preliminary and
a final subdivision plat to the Planning Commission for its approval. The
subdivision plats and all procedures relating thereto shall in all respects be
in full compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved:
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land;
      (2)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given;
      (3)   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electrical service,
lighting, grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by
any owner or owners or his, her or their agent, or by any public service
corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his, her or their agent;
      (4)   Lots subject to flooding and lots deemed by the Planning Commission
to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy nor for such
other uses which may increase danger to health, life, or property or aggravate
the flood hazard. Such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses
that shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or shall not
produce unsatisfactory living conditions;
      (5)   All offerings or dedications of land to the village for uses as
streets, alleys, highways, schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public use
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation
before being accepted by the Village Board of Trustees;
      (6)   (a)   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a
larger, logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the
Planning Commission may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the
entire area or neighborhood, such plan to be used by the Planning Commission as
an aid to evaluate the merit and the impact of the proposed plat.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall have authority to require
adjustments in the plat or plan which are deemed to be in the best interests of
the village and the impact of the subdivision on village facilities and
infrastructure;
      (7)   The provisions of this chapter and rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, shall be held to be the minimum
requirements which a subdivider shall meet; and
      (8)   This chapter wherever possible, shall be construed consistent with
the provisions of the Illinois Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq., (hereinafter
referred to as the “Plat Act”). In case of conflict, the Plat Act shall take
precedence.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.002 RULES.
   In interpreting this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in this
section and §
154.003  shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of the Village of Forreston.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the recorded plat, between which line and the adjacent boundary
of the street the erection of a building is prohibited.
   COLLECTOR RESIDENTIAL STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of residence development.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
   FINAL PLAT. A map and any accompanying material prepared by the subdivider
and approved by the village in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.090  through
154.093  to be recorded as a subdivision.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting a public street, road, highway or rural right-of-way.
   GRADE. The slope of road, street, or other public way, specified in percent
(%) and shown on street profile plans as required herein.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, planting strip, off-street
parking area, or other facility for which the Village of Forreston may
ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A state route with access control under the
authority of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land with access to a
public street intended for transfer of ownership or for building development.
   MINOR RESIDENTIAL STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting
properties.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The drawings and documents presented for tentative
approval. A PRELIMINARY PLAT may be either for a planned unit development or
for a subdivision.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or for another special use. The usage
of the term RIGHTS-OF-WAY for land platting purposes in the village shall mean
that every right-of-way is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such rights-of-way, and not included with the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by
a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
   ROADWAY. A surfaced portion of the street available for vehicular traffic.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A septic tank seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other sewage treatment device approved by the Village
Engineer as being in accordance with the rules of the County Health Department.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street or cross walkway, paved or otherwise
surfaced, and shall be for pedestrian use only.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of vehicular
access to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue, highway,
road, boulevard, land throughway, or however otherwise designated, but
excepting an alley or driveway to buildings.
   STREET, HALF. A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the subdivider has only allocated a part of the ultimate right-
of-way width and is not permitted by this chapter.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent who
undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land into two or more parts, any of
which parts is less than five acres, for the purpose of ownership transfer or
building development, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes any division of land that attempts to avoid the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Where appropriate to the context, the term shall relate to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
      (3)   Consistent with the Illinois Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.), the
following division of land shall be exempted from the definition of
SUBDIVISION: the division of a lot, tract or parcel of land of less than one
acre in a recorded subdivision into two or more lots, parcels or other
divisions of land not involving any new streets, public utility easements or
easements of access or each lot, tract or parcel of land resulting from such
subdivision:
         (a)   Contains the minimum square footage required under this chapter;
and
         (b)   Complies in all other respects with the provisions of this
chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Village of Forreston zoning ordinance, as adopted by
reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, and subsequent amendments
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 2015-11, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-
3-2015)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and general welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this chapter upon the subdivision of land are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provisions of this chapter or of any other applicable law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive and impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such
easements, covenant or other private agreement, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern. A subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at
the time of the adoption hereof shall not be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of this chapter, and to the extent that said subdivision of land
is in conflict in any manner with the requirements of this chapter, said
subdivision of land remains unlawful hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.005 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village Board of Trustees
that the several provisions of this chapter be separable in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision
of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular subdivision of
land, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision to any
other subdivision of land, not specifically included in said judgment.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.020 ORGANIZATION.
   The following shall be administered according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The Village Board Of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees reserves
to itself the following functions:
      (1)   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary and final plats referred
to the Village Board of Trustees by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Approval or disapproval of all variations and exceptions
recommended by the Planning Commission;
      (3)   Amendment of this chapter when necessary and desirable, as
hereinafter provided;
      (4)   Enforcement of this chapter’s provisions; and
      (5) Administration of this chapter’s provisions until the Plats Officer
is appointed.
   (B)   The Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall administer the
provisions of this chapter, and shall:
      (1)   Receive all preliminary plats (together with applications);
      (2)   Forward copies of the preliminary plat to appropriate officers and
agencies for their recommendations, evaluations and reports;
      (3)   Receive all final plats, and verify compliance with the preliminary
plat, together with any changes to the preliminary plat;
      (4)   Forward all preliminary and final plats with recommendations to the
Village Board of Trustees;
      (5)   Make all determinations required by the regulations set forth
herein or promulgated pursuant thereto, and establish permanent files for all
preliminary and final plats; and
      (6)   Maintain records of all applications, proceedings and
determinations.
   (C)   Plats Officer.
      (1)   A Plats Officer shall be appointed by the Village President subject
to the approval of the Village Board of Trustees. The Plats Officer shall have
the following responsibilities:
         (a)   Advise engineers, subdividers and the public regarding local
procedures, standards and actions of the Village Board of Trustees and/or
Planning Commission regarding plat reviews and requirements;
         (b)   Act as technical administrator and coordinator to the Planning
Commission and Village Board of Trustees and a liaison to the Village Engineer;
         (c)   Notify the Village Board of Trustees whenever any provisions of
this chapter have been violated; and
         (d)   Collect all plat fees due the village and transfer said fees to
the Village Clerk for deposit in the General Fund.
      (2)   The Village Engineer shall serve as Plats Officer until that
officer is appointed and assumes his or her duties.
   (D)   The Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall review all
preliminary and final subdivision plats and make determinations regarding
design standards and engineering specifications, as set forth herein. His or
her determinations and recommendations shall be forwarded in writing to the
Planning Commission and to the Village Attorney prior to consideration of any
preliminary or final plat approval. The Village Engineer shall also monitor the
installation of improvements as set forth in §
154.025 .
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.021 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The village shall defer permit requests for improvements on property
until such time as the plat for such property has been approved and recorded in
the manner provided by this chapter. No building permit shall be granted except
for improvements on land for which a plat has been approved and recorded
according to the requirements of this chapter or on those parcels of property
platted or recorded as separate parcels of property prior to the effective date
hereof.
   (B)   The Village Clerk and Township Assessors are hereby instructed not to
divide for assessment or taxing purposes any properties that are being
subdivided contrary to the rules and regulations as herein set forth, until
such time as the Plat Officer and the Village Attorney have been notified and
their recommendations made known.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.022 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. Where the Planning Commission finds that
extraordinary hardships or particular difficulties may result from strict
compliance with these regulations, they may recommend to the Village Board of
Trustees variations or exceptions to the regulations, provided that such
variations or exceptions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of this chapter; and further provided the Planning Commission shall not
recommend variations or exceptions to the regulations of this chapter unless it
shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in such specific
case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations was carried out; and
      (4)   Cost to the developer of strict or literal compliance with the
regulations shall not be the sole reason for granting a variation or exception.
   (B)   Conditions. In recommending variations and exceptions, the Planning
Commission may require such conditions as will, in their judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Procedure for a variation. A petition for any such variation shall be
submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for the consideration of the Planning Commission. The petition shall
fully detail the grounds for the application and all of the facts taken into
consideration by the petitioner.
   (D)   Recommendation and approval. Such variations and exceptions as may be
recommended by the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the Village Board
of Trustees in writing, substantiating the recommended variations and/or
exceptions. The Village Board of Trustees may approve such variations or
exceptions from the requirements of this chapter in specific cases as listed on
the final plat, which in its opinion do not adversely affect the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.023 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety and general
welfare, the Village Board of Trustees may from time-to-time amend the
regulations imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by either the
Village Board of Trustees or the Planning Commission in the manner prescribed
by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.024 FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The subdivider and those making land improvements shall pay
all filing, review and inspection fees as provided for in this chapter, and
shall promptly reimburse the village for all costs incurred by the village in
connection with the review of any matters pertaining to a preliminary or final
plat, including, but not limited to, court reporter fees, recording fees and
all fees of attorneys, engineers and other consultants that may be required by
the village pertaining to said plats. Fees associated with the work of
individuals (not employees of the village), corporations or other entities
shall have 5% added to the fee charged to the village.
   (B)   Reimbursement for staff review time. Every applicant for preliminary
or final plat approval shall promptly reimburse the village for all costs
incurred by the village in connection with the review of any matters pertaining
to a preliminary or final plat, including, but not limited to, all legal,
engineering, land use planning and other professional services required during
the review of applications required by the village and to assure compliance
with the standards contained in this chapter.
      (1)   With the exception of a lot previously subdivided, the applicant
shall deposit into a specified account with the village at the time of the
first application affecting the applicant’s project an amount not less than
$500 and not more than $2,500. The amount shall be determined by the Plats
Officer or his or her authorized designee and shall be based upon the expected
complexity of the proposed application and the anticipated amount of time
required by the village staff and its consultants to review the application and
supporting documentation. The final fee billed to the applicant may be more or
less than the deposit.
      (2)   Such expenses shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Meetings with the applicant will be charged at the prevailing
hourly charges of all staff members and consultants deemed necessary by the
village. However, charges will not be made for a first “introductory” meeting
with the village staff and consultants;
         (b)   The prevailing hourly charges of all village staff members and
consultants deemed necessary by the village, for time spent on reviewing
applications; and
         (c)   Any and all filing and other fees that affect the applicant’s
project that are required by the village.
      (3)   All proceedings in connection with the preliminary or final plat
shall be stayed until such sum so designated is deposited with the village as
required.
      (4)   Upon submission of bills by the Village Attorney, Village Engineer,
Village Planner or other consultant hired to review the application, the
village shall pay these fees out of the specified account. At such time the
balance of the account reaches one-fourth of the original amount deposited, the
Plats Officer or his or her authorized designee may demand from the applicant a
sum of money that, in addition to the balance of the account, shall equal the
amount of the deposit originally required by the village, or such other amount
as the Plats Officer or his or her authorized designee may in such case
determine.
         (a)   All proceedings with regard to such preliminary or final plat
shall be stayed until such additional amount shall be deposited in said
account.
         (b)   Any demand or subsequent demand of the village not deposited by
the applicant within ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and federal
holidays) of the date of the demand shall, at the discretion of the Village
Board and upon written notice to the applicant, terminate and render null and
void the application for the proposed preliminary or final plat.
      (5)   The village shall present a final statement by the Village
Attorney, Village Engineer, Village Planner or other consultant hired to review
the application within 60 days of the approval of the application. If, upon
payment of these fees, any balance is remaining in the specified account, said
balance shall be returned to the applicant.
   (C)   Fee schedule. The application fees for preliminary and final plats
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Preliminary plat application fee: $250; and
      (2)   Final plat application fee: $125.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.025 FIELD INSPECTION.
   (A)   All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected on a regular basis by the subdivider’s engineer. The
frequency and duration of such inspections shall be adequate to ensure that all
improvements are constructed in strict accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the village. The subdivider’s engineer shall provide
written certification that all improvements have been properly installed.
   (B)   The village’s designated officer or employee in charge of public works
and the Village Engineer shall be notified whenever construction is being done
so that they may conduct independent inspections as deemed necessary.
   (C)   The subdivider shall provide three copies of construction record
drawings of all improvements completed to the village. These drawings shall be
accurately dimensioned. Sanitary sewer manhole rims and invert elevations,
water main locations, water service and sanitary sewer service locations shall
be shown on the construction record drawings.
   (D)   The construction record drawings shall be a condition of final
acceptance of the improvements and release of the surety bond or letter of
credit.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.040 PLANNING COMMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, in the examination of subdivision plats for
approval, and in the application of this chapter, shall take into consideration
the requirements of the community and the best use of the land being
subdivided. Particular attention shall be given to width and location of
streets, suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes and
arrangements, as well as local requirements such as parks and playgrounds,
schools and recreation sites, and other public uses.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall require that all subdivisions conform in
general to the provisions and conditions of the village’s comprehensive land
use plan for future development of the village. Plat approval may be withheld
if a subdivision is not in conformity with provisions of said plan.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend for approval to the
Village Board of Trustees any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provisions for storm or flood water run-off channels or basins in accordance
with
Chapter 153, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   In all subdivisions due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical and similar
features.
   (E)   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the variation of
design of homes to be located in the subdivision, and appropriate lot size for
the type of subdivision to be platted. Approval shall not be given for
subdivisions incorporating a uniform design for all homes to be located therein
or for the location of identical or nearly identical homes within the same
block.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend for approval to the
Village Board of Trustees any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provisions for municipal water and sewer service as provided in §
154.047 .
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend for approval to the
Village Board of Trustees any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provision for the impact of the subdivision on the village’s infrastructure,
including, but not limited to, transportation, traffic flow, parking, curbs and
gutters, and sidewalks.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend for approval to the
Village Board of Trustees any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provisions for the transportation of excess stormwaters in accordance with
Chapter 153, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.041 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN THE EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF
THE VILLAGE.
   The Planning Commission shall make use of all extraterritorial jurisdiction
granted by state law and shall examine all subdivision plats within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village. The intent of such examination
will be to assure that subdivisions located in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village conform to current village standards for
subdivision of lands. However, failure of the Planning Commission to review an
extraterritorial development shall not preclude the Village Board of Trustees
from initiating action to enforce village requirements should the Planning
Commission fail to act.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.042 UNSUITABLE LAND.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
Planning Commission, after investigation by the Village Engineer, to be
unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or bad drainage, adverse earth or
rock formation or topography, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the
health, safety or welfare of the future residents in the proposed subdivision
or of the community. However, the subdivision of land which is subject to
stream overflow may be permitted if the special requirements described in §§
154.090  through
154.093  have been completed or proper assurance given that they will be
completed subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.043 DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   When a final plat of a subdivision has been approved by the Village
Board of Trustees and Planning Commission and all other required approvals are
obtained and the plat is recorded, that approval shall constitute acceptance
for the purpose designated on the plat of all lands shown on the plat as
dedicated to the public, including street dedication.
   (B)   Whenever a preliminary plat includes a proposed dedication of land to
public use and the Planning Commission finds that such land is not required or
not suitable for public use, the Planning Commission may either refuse to
approve such dedication or require the rearrangement of lots in the proposed
subdivision to include such land.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.044 RESERVATION OF PUBLIC SPACES AND SITES.
   (A)   Preliminary plat to accommodate planned public spaces. Whenever a
tract to be subdivided includes a proposed street, highway or parkway or
proposed site for a playground, school or other public use as indicated in
village’s comprehensive land use plan, such space shall be suitably
incorporated by the developer into his or her subdivision plat after proper
determination of its necessity by the Planning Commission and/or other public
agency involved in the acquisition and use of each such site.
   (B)   Requirements for floodplain areas. The Village Board of Trustees may,
when it deems it necessary for the health, safety or welfare of the present and
future population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water,
drainage and sanitary facilities, prohibit subdivision of any portion of the
property which lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course.
These floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material or
stumps.
   (C)   Acquisition of land for public use. The Planning Commission shall
consider all preliminary plats and adopted or proposed studies related thereto,
to determine the need for acquisition for public use of any of the land
included in the preliminary plat. Land may be acquired for: public school site
parks; playgrounds or other public recreation areas; or other public purposes
available for acquisition as provided by law.
      (1)   Referral to public body. The Planning Commission shall refer the
plat to the public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration and
report. The Planning Commission may propose alternate areas for such
acquisition and shall allow the public body or agency 30 days to reply. The
agency’s recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing the
boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time
required to complete the acquisition.
      (2)   Notice to property owner. Upon receipt of an affirmative report,
the Planning Commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on
preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired and an estimate
of the time required to complete the acquisition.
      (3)   Duration of land reservation.
         (a)   The acquisition of land reserved by a public agency on the
preliminary or final plat shall be initiated within 12 months of notification,
in writing, from the owner that he or she intends to develop the land. Such
letter of intent shall be accompanied by a sketch plan of the proposed
development and a tentative schedule of construction.
         (b)   Failure on the part of the public agency to initiate acquisition
within the prescribed 12 months shall result in the removal of the “reserved”
designation from the property involved and the freeing of the property for
development.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.045 VACATION OF A PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees
in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The Village Board of Trustees may
reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any
of its streets or alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or
proved, and recorded or filed in the like manner as plats of subdivision; and
being duly recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of
the recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing. The provisions of 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq., (Plats and Surveys) are
also applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.046 LAND DIVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to any division of land into two or
more parts, any of which is less than five acres in area, provided however,
that the provisions of this chapter do not apply and no subdivision plat is
required in the event of any of the instances listed in 765 ILCS 205/1(b) of
the Illinois Plat Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.047 SANITARY SEWERS AND WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Where public facilities are available.
      (1)   Where public facilities are available, a water main within 500 feet
of any property line and sanitary sewer as required in the village’s sewer use
ordinance, sanitary sewers, water mains and all required appurtenances shall be
installed in all subdivisions. Sanitary sewers shall meet or exceed all
requirements of the Village Engineer and the Standard Specifications for Water
and Sewer Construction in Illinois, latest edition.
      (2)   Interceptors, force mains, lift stations, booster pumps, wells and
water main pumps shall be installed in all new subdivisions where required by
the Village Engineer.
   (B)   Where public facilities are not available. Where public facilities are
not available, sanitary sewers, water mains and all appurtenances necessary to
extend and provide effective, efficient, safe and potable public water and
sewer service to the development, as determined by the Village Engineer, shall
be installed at the cost of the subdivider or developer.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.048 EXCEPTIONS, VARIATIONS AND WAIVERS.
   In the event the Planning Commission finds that the application of the
provisions of procedures of this chapter to a particular land division might
create an unreasonable hardship or involve peculiar difficulties, including,
but not limited to, prohibitive cost, the Planning Commission may consider
exception, variation or waiver in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   All exceptions, variations or waivers must be initiated by the
subdivider and submitted to the Planning Commission in writing and shall
include reasons, data or justification.
   (B)   All exceptions, variations or waivers recommended for approval or
denial by the Planning Commission shall be accompanied by finding of facts and
transmitted to the Village Board of Trustees with the subject plat.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL
§ 154.060 PROCEDURE.
   In planning and developing a subdivision within the corporate limits of the
village, the subdivider shall respect the following procedure.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-0) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.061 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION.
   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision
within the jurisdiction of the village, the subdivider shall make known his or
her intentions to the Planning Commission and Plats Officer. During this
preliminary or pre-application stage, the following actions shall be taken.
   (A)   Action by the subdivider. The subdivider shall meet informally with
the Plats Officer for the purpose of presenting a general outline of his or her
proposal, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Written notification of “letter of intent” from the subdivider to
the Planning Commission, establishing the subdivider’s intentions as to
development of the land;
      (2)   A sketch of plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangement, and tentative lot sizes;
      (3)   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal,
surface drainage and street improvements; and
      (4)   Evidence of consultation with, and tentative approval of public
utility companies concerned.
   (B)   Action by the Plats Officer. The Plats Officer shall discuss the
proposed subdivision with the subdivider and advise him or her of procedural
steps, design and improvement standards, and general plat requirements, after
which the Plats Officer shall proceed with the following investigations:
      (1)   Advise the developer of existing village plans which might affect
the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Check the existing zoning of the tract and make recommendations if
a zoning change is necessary or desirable;
      (3)   Determine the adequacy of existing or proposed schools, parks and
other public spaces;
      (4)   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to major
streets, utility systems and adjacent land uses, and determine any unusual
problems in regard to topography, utilities, flooding and the like; and
      (5)   Consult with the Village Engineer regarding improvements and
standards.
   (C)   Action by the Planning Commission. Upon receipt of the letter of
intent and official acknowledgment of same, and upon certification by the Plats
Officer that the discussions and investigations described in division (B) above
have been completed, the Planning Commission shall authorize the subdivider in
writing to prepare and submit his or her preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.062 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision
in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.075  through
154.079 , and shall file with the Plats Officer an application in writing for
the tentative approval of said plat accompanied by a reproducible subdivision
drawing and five black and white prints or other acceptable reproductions at
least 20 days prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which action
is desired.
   (A)   Action by the Plats Officer.
      (1)   The Plats Officer shall transmit copies of the preliminary plat to
the Village Engineer and other village officials and other agencies as deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission for their recommendations. These
recommendations in respect thereto shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission not later than five days before the meeting at which the preliminary
plat will be reviewed.
      (2)   The Plats Officer shall notify the president of the school board of
each school district in which any of the subdivided land is located in
accordance with the provisions of 765 ILCS 205/2 (Illinois Plat Act).
   (B)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   A preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission to
determine its conformity to this chapter, the comprehensive land use plan, and
all other ordinances and regulations in force which affect subdivisions.
      (2)   Upon submission of the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission,
the Planning Commission shall schedule a public hearing giving not less than 15
days’ notice. Each hearing shall be conducted and the records of the
proceedings and hearing shall be made and preserved in a manner and according
to such procedures as the Planning Commission shall prescribe from time to time
by its rules.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days of the receipt of an
application for the approval of a preliminary plat, approve or disapprove the
plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any changes that will be
required. If agreed to by the subdivider, the time may be extended for no more
than 30 days after which one copy shall be returned to the subdivider with the
date of the approval or disapproval, and the reason therefor, accompanying the
plat.
      (4)   If the preliminary plat as originally submitted, or as changed or
modified, as required by the Planning Commission, meets the requirements of
this chapter, the Planning Commission shall give its approval, and it shall
then be referred to the Village Board of Trustees for tentative approval.
Within 30 days of receipt of the preliminary plat, the Village Board of
Trustees shall approve or disapprove the plat. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved, objections to it shall be noted and it shall be returned to the
Planning Commission; if it is approved, the Village Clerk shall affix his or
her signature to it with the notation that it has received Village Board of
Trustees’ approval and it shall then be returned to the subdivider for
compliance with final approval requirements.
   (C)   Rights under preliminary approval. Preliminary approval by the Village
Board of Trustees shall give the applicant the following rights for a 12-month
period from the date of approval:
      (1)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed by the village; and
      (2)   The applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the whole
or parts of the preliminary approved plat for final approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.063 FINAL PLAT.
   After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may prepare and
submit to the Planning Commission the final plat incorporating all required
modifications to the preliminary plat. During the final plat stage, the
following actions shall be taken.
   (A)   Filing of final plat. After he or she has entered into a contract with
the Village Board of Trustees, guaranteed by a bond, by which he or she agrees
to provide utilities and improvements to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer and Planning Commission, the subdivider shall file with the Plats
Officer, within 12 months of the date of approval or conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, unless such period is extended by the Planning
Commission, the final plat and three reproductions thereof which shall conform
to the requirements of §§
154.090  through
154.093  and three copies of documents, plans and specifications meeting the
requirements of §§
154.090  through
154.093 . A drainage report conforming to §
154.106 (N) shall accompany said plat. The Plats Officer shall forthwith
transmit all copies of the final plat to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Action by the Plats Officer. The Plats Officer shall notify the
president of the school board of each school district in which any of the
subdivided land is located in accordance with 765 ILCS 205/2 (Illinois Plat
Act).
   (C)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt thereof, the Planning Commission shall examine the
final plat and all necessary certificates to determine its conformance to the
preliminary plat and the requirements established in this chapter, and shall
within 30 days of its submission, unless the time is extended by the Village
Board of Trustees in agreement with the developer, either recommend approval or
disapproval of said final plat to the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   After the Planning Commission reviews the final plat, such review
and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of the Plats
Officer and the plat shall be transmitted to the Village Board of Trustees for
the necessary action on the final approval of the plat and on any proposed
dedications.
   (D)   Action of the Village Board Of Trustees.
      (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall approve or disapprove the final
plat and accept or reject the areas preserved for or dedicated to the public
within 60 days of its submission to the Planning Commission unless the
subdivider is notified of objections to the plat or the time is extended by
agreement with the subdivider.
      (2)   After the final plat has been approved by the Village Board of
Trustees, the Village Engineer and the Village Clerk shall sign the plat and
return to the subdivider. Copies of the plat shall also be transmitted to the
Planning Commission, Village Attorney, Village Engineer and Village Clerk for
their files.
   (E)   Action by the subdivider. Upon receipt of the final plat approval by
the Village Board of Trustees, the subdivider shall record the plat with the
County Recorder’s office within 90 days of the date of the Village Board of
Trustees’ action and provide proof of recording to the Village Clerk. Failure
to record the final plat within 90 days will void the Village Board of
Trustees’ action and necessitate reinstitution of the final plat procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 154.075 SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for tentative or conditional approval in the form of a preliminary
plat prior to the submission of a final plat. The preliminary plat is not
intended to be a final plat and must be prepared in such form as not to be
confused with a final plat. Its purpose is to show graphically all facts needed
to enable the Planning Commission and other public bodies to determine whether
the proposed layout of the land in question is satisfactory from the standpoint
of the public interest. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer.
   (B)   The following graphic and descriptive items are normally required to
be shown on the preliminary plat and the accompanying application for approval.
The lack of information under any item specified herein, or improper
information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval of a
preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.076 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   The owner or his or her agent shall file a declaration of intent to
subdivide on forms furnished by the Planning Commission and this shall be
accompanied by the preliminary plat which contains the following information:
   (A)   Declaration of intent. The declaration of intent to subdivide shall
take the following form:
 
      I, owner/sponsor/optionee of a parcel of land described as follows:
      (General description, subdivision name, location by section, township and
range, reference to roads)
      Hereby formally announce my intention to subdivide said property and to submit
a preliminary plat of the subdivision to the Planning Commission within six (6)
months of this date.
      Signed this day of 20    .
      Signature                        .
 
   (B)   Name for file identification.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision;
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county; and
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.)
   (C)   Location and description of property. Location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county;
   (D)   Basic facts and proposals pertaining to the property.
      (1)   Size of tract in gross and net acres. Existing lots, if any, in
square feet;
      (2)   Existing zoning classification of property and any rezoning
proposed to be requested;
      (3)   Number of lots proposed in subdivision;
      (4)   Area of lots proposed; minimum, average and maximum;
      (5)   Linear feet of streets in the subdivision;
      (6)   Proposed type of water and sewer facilities; and
      (7)   Any other proposals, such as parcels of land intended to be
dedicated, conveyed or reserved for public use, and the conditions proposed for
such disposal and use.
   (E)   Information as to ownership; preparation of plat and submission
thereof.
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date and land records reference;
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property;
      (3)   Existing covenants on the property, if any; and
      (4)   Name and address, including telephone number of:
         (a)   The registered professional engineer of Illinois responsible for
the design of the subdivision and the public improvements; and
         (b)   The registered professional land surveyor of the state
responsible for surveys.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.077 THE DRAWING.
   Five copies and one reproducible copy of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission. These may be blueline or backline prints
at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall show correctly on
its face the following information:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point;
   (B)   The proposed subdivision name (must be same as that specified in the
application);
   (C)   The name and address of the owner, the subdivider and the surveyor
responsible for surveys;
   (D)   Location of the subdivision by government lot, quarter section,
section, township, range and county;
   (E)   A vicinity sketch or small scale drawing of the section or area within
which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision indicated
thereon;
   (F)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining
parcels of un-subdivided land;
   (G)   Zoning on and adjacent to the subdivision;
   (H)   Location, width and names of all existing and platted streets, alleys
and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings, bridges and
other pertinent data as determined by the Planning Commission;
   (I)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to the USGS datum plane;
   (J)   Layout, width, grades and proposed names of all new streets and
rights-of-way, including alleys, highways, easements for sewers and water mains
and other public utilities;
   (K)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sanitary and storm sewers are to be
indicated in a general way upon the preliminary plat;
   (L)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (water, sewers and storm drains)
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems;
   (M)   Approximate dimensions and areas of lots. All lots over one acre in
size shall have the area marked within the lot;
   (N)   Proposed building setback lines;
   (O)   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents and central angles
on all streets;
   (P)   Approximate location and area of all property proposed to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all
property owners in the subdivision, with the conditions, if any, of such
dedication or reservation;
   (Q)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet; and
   (R)   All other information required by the Illinois Plat Act (765 ILCS
205).
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.078 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The applicant shall submit, simultaneously with the preliminary subdivision
plat, five copies and one reproducible copy of the stormwater management plan,
in conformance with
Chapter 153, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances to the village
with the preliminary plat drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.079 SCHOOL DISTRICT STATEMENT.
   The owner shall submit, simultaneously with the preliminary subdivision
plat, a notarized statement indicating, to the best of the owner’s knowledge,
the school district in which each tract, parcel, lot or block lies, in
accordance with 765 ILCS 205/1.005.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
FINAL PLATS
§ 154.090 FINAL PLAT MAY CONSTITUTE ALL OR A PORTION OF THE APPROVED
PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   A final plat may constitute only a portion of the area contained in the
approved preliminary plat provided that the public improvements constructed in
the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and of themselves to accomplish
a proper development and to provide adequately for the health, safety and
convenience of the proposed residents therein and for adequate access to
contiguous areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.091 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   Written application by the owner or his or her agent for approval, on forms
furnished by the Planning Commission, shall accompany each final plat and
contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision (which is subject to approval by the Village Board
of Trustees and should be cleared with the Planning Commission prior to
submission of the plat) and description of blocks and lots included on plat;
   (B)   Location of subdivision by government lot, section, township, range
and county;
   (C)   Name, date of approval and file number of the preliminary plat upon
which the final plat is based;
   (D)   Zoning classification of the property;
   (E)   Total number of lots and/or parcels included on the plat;
   (F)   Total area (gross area) shown on the plat, including streets, and
total area dedicated to public use if any;
   (G)   Existing or proposed covenants, if any. Reference shall be made to any
private restrictions, and plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owners
and mortgages accepting said platting and restrictions; and
   (H)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the owner or his or
her agent and the surveyor responsible for the survey.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.092 THE FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat shall be drawn with waterproof nonfading black ink, at a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, on Mylar or its equivalent, 17
inches wide by 22 inches long. When more than one sheet is used for any plat,
each sheet shall be numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation giving
the total number of sheets in the plat and showing the relation of that sheet
to the other sheets, and each sheet shall bear the name of the subdivision.
Each plat shall show correctly on its face the following information:
   (A)   Map and engineering information.
      (1)   Date, scale and north point;
      (2)   The exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and divided;
      (3)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the diameter and length of the monuments;
      (4)   (a)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries, the
boundary lines of all blocks, public grounds, streets and alleys, and all lot
lines, except that when the lines in any tier of lots are parallel, it shall be
sufficient to make the bearings of the outer lines on one tier thereof.
         (b)   Easements shall be shown by centerline and width when lines are
parallel to a boundary, otherwise boundary bearings and distances shall be
shown. Where the exterior boundary lines show bearings or lengths which vary
from those recorded in abutting plats or certified surveys, there shall be the
following note placed along such lines, “recorded as (show recorded bearing or
length or both)”;
      (5)   Blocks, if designated, shall be consecutively numbered, or lettered
in alphabetical order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivision bearing
the same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively through the several
additions;
      (6)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Out lots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered,
out lots shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block;
      (7)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks, lots,
parcels, public grounds, easements and rights-of-way or enough information so
that the length of these lines can be derived by simple calculations. Where a
boundary line is an arc of a circle, the length of the chord shall be shown;
      (8)   The widths of all streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way;
      (9)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines on all
lots and parcels and a notation of the distance between such lines and the
street right-of-way line;
      (10)   The area of each lot or parcel containing an area of one acre or
more;
      (11)   The words “Private Road” clearly marked on all streets shown on
the plat which are not dedicated to public use;
      (12)   Abutting street lines of adjoining subdivisions, shown in their
correct locations by dashed lines;
      (13)   The exact width of all easements, streets and alleys;
      (14)   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the surveyor
in accordance with division (D) below, the distance and bearings thereof and
the distance between the point of intersection of such meander lines with lot
lines and the ordinary high-water mark;
      (15)   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary and
block angles. When such angles are between a curve and its tangent, the angle
shown shall be that between the tangent and the main chord of the curve. When
between curves of different radii, the angle between the main chord; and
      (16)   When strict compliance with a provision of this section will
entail undue or unnecessary difficulty or tend to render the plat more
difficult to read, and when the information on the plat is sufficient for the
exact retracement of the measurements and bearings or other necessary
dimensions, the Planning Commission, upon the recommendations of the Village
Engineer, may waive such strict compliance.
   (B)   Name, location and position. The name of the subdivision shall be
printed on the plat in prominent letters, and the following information
relating to the position and location of the subdivision shall be shown
thereof:
      (1)   The location of the subdivision by government lot recorded private
claim, quarter section, section, township, range and county noted immediately
under the name given the subdivision;
      (2)   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distances and
bearings with reference to a corner or corners established in the United States
Public Land Survey;
      (3)   The names of adjoining streets, State highways and subdivisions
shown in their proper location; and
      (4)   Abutting street and state highway lines of adjoining plats shown in
their proper location by dotted lines. The width of these streets and highways
shall be given also.
   (C)   Roads and public spaces.
      (1)   The name of each road or street in the plat shall be printed
therein in prominent letters;
      (2)   All lands dedicated to public use except roads and streets shall be
clearly marked “Dedicated to the Public”;
      (3)   All roads or streets shown on the plat which are not dedicated to
public use shall be clearly marked “Private Road”, or “Private Street” or
“Private Way”; and
      (4)   Each lot within the plat must have access to a public or private
street unless otherwise provided by local ordinance.
   (D)   Site conditions and topography.
      (1)   All existing buildings;
      (2)   All watercourses, drainage ditches and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision;
      (3)   If a major water course lies adjacent to or transverses the
property, it should be necessary for the registered engineer to submit cross-
section, drainage easements, building setback lines and supporting calculations
based upon 100-year flood history; and
      (4)   All other information required by the Illinois Plat Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Improvements required, see §
154.120
§ 154.093 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
office of the County Recorder the following certificates and affidavits
together with the certificate of approval of the Village Board of Trustees,
shall accompany it. These certificates and affidavits shall be lettered or
printed legibly on the face of the final plat. They must be duly signed by the
appropriate person before the plat is entitled to record.
   (A)   Certification by surveyor.
 
      I,             , a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Illinois, hereby certify
that, at the request of             I have caused an accurate survey to be made of the property
described above as                                      .
      I further certify that a 5/8 inch reinforcing bar has been placed at each lot corner, at
each block corner and points of curve in the street, and that concrete monuments have been set
or found at the locations indicated on the plat. I further certify that the accompanying plat is
a true and correct representation of said survey, and the dimensions shown are given in feet and
decimals of a foot upon said plat.
      I hereby further certify that             is located in the Special Flood Hazard Zone     
identified for the Village of Forreston, Illinois, by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel No.     , dated          .
      Signed at             , Illinois this     day of       , A.D., 20    .
      ____________________________________
         Illinois Professional Land Surveyor
         No. ____________________________
 
   (B)   Certification of dedication by the owner of the land.
 
      As owner, I hereby certify that I have caused the land described in the
foregoing affidavit of the surveyor to be surveyed, divided, and mapped as
presented on this Plat. All streets, alleys, walkways, parks, playgrounds and
school sites shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the public for public
purposes, and all easements shown are subject to the Easement Provisions hereon.
      Owner: ______________________________________
      Address: _____________________________________
 
   (C)   Certification by notary public.
 
      I,             , a Notary Public in and for the County of Ogle in the State of
Illinois, do hereby certify that personally known to me to be the same person(s) whose name
(s) is (are) subscribed to the foregoing instrument, appeared before me this day in person
and (several) acknowledge that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered said instrument as his
(their) free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
      Given under my hand Notarial Seal this        day of          , 20    .
      Signature                                        Seal
                                    
 
   (D)   Certification by the County Clerk.
 
      I,             , County Clerk of Ogle County in the State of Illinois, do hereby certify
that I find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes, delinquent special
assessments or unpaid current special assessments against the lands embraced within the tract of
land described and platted in the accompanying plat.
      In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal of the County of Ogle this
          day of          , 20      .
      Signature                                        Seal                                     
 
   (E)   Easement provision.
      (1)   An easement is hereby reserved for and granted governmental bodies
and other public utilities and their respective successors and assigns within
the area as shown by dotted lines on the plat and marked “Easement” to install,
lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain storm and sanitary sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, poles and wires, overhead and underground, with all necessary
braces, guys, anchors and other equipment for the purpose of serving the
subdivision and other property with telephone, electric and other utility
service, also is hereby granted the right to use the streets for said purpose,
the right to overhand lots with aerial service wires to serve adjacent lots,
the right to enter upon the lots at all times to install, lay, construct,
renew, operate and maintain within the said easement area said storm and
sanitary sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, poles, wires, braces, guys, anchors,
and other equipment, and finally the right is hereby granted to cut down and
remove or trim and keep trimmed any trees, shrubs or saplings that interfere or
threaten to interfere with any of the said public utility equipment installed
on said easement, but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and
other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or
the rights therein granted.
      (2)   If the grade of the subdivided property must be so altered or if
storm and sanitary sewer facilities require that the underground utility be
moved or otherwise altered, the owners, their respective successors and
assigns, shall reimburse the utility company for the necessary expense
involved.
   (F)   Certification by the Village Engineer.
 
      All required improvements including but not limited to streets,
sidewalks, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains and drainage structures
have been built as required, or have been provided for by bond contract or
irrevocable letter of credit to my approval.
      Dated this        day of          , 20    .
      Signature                                        Seal
                                    
 
   (G)   Certification by Planning Commission Chairperson.
 
      This is to certify that Planning Commission of the Village of Forreston did, at its meeting
on the          day of          , 20     A.D. approve the Plat and forwarded it to the Village
Board of Trustees.
      Planning Commission Chairperson                                               
 
   (H)   Certification by Village Clerk.
 
      This is to certify that the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Forreston did,
at its meeting on the        day of          , A.D., 20    , approve the Plat and authorize it
to be recorded.
      In witness whereof, I             , Village Clerk of the Village of Forreston hereunto
set my hand and affixed the seal of said Village of Forreston, this        day of          ,
A.D., 20    .
      I hereby further certify that the drainage report required by Chapter 109, Paragraphs 1
and 2 of the Illinois Revised Statutes is on file in my office.
      Village Clerk ____________________   Seal ____________________
 
   (I)   Form for certification of recording official.
 
      Filed for record this        day of          , 20    , at      o’clock,    .M., recorded in Book
of Plats, Page     and examined.
      County Recorder ________________________
      Document Number ______________________
 
 
   (J)   Certification of road access and drainage report.
      This plat has been approved with respect to roadway access pursuant to Il.
Rev. Stat. 1987, Ch. 109, Par. 2.
      Village President _________________________
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.105 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the design standards established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations:
   (A)   The provisions of 65 ILCS;
   (B)   The village’s zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155, and all other applicable ordinances of the appropriate
jurisdictions;
   (C)   The requirements of the County Health Department and the Illinois
State Department of Public Health in relation to lot size and lot elevation if
the subdivision is not served by public water or by a public sewer and
provision for one or both of these services has not been made;
   (D)   The rules of the Illinois Department of Transportation relating to
safety of access and the preservation of the public interest and investment in
the streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state trunk
highway or connecting street; and
   (E)   
Chapter 153, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.106 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Design and location. Streets shall be designed and located in relation
to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions and natural
terrain features such as streams and existing tree growth, to public
convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses of
land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed systems of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established on
the comprehensive land use plan of the village.
      (2)   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers; to population densities and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      (3)   Streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage
and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to
provide convenient, safe access to property.
      (4)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily
be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, culs-de-sac or U-shaped
streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout.
      (5)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission such extension
is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
      (6)   In business and industrial developments the street and other access
ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of
rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering
areas, fire protection and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict
of movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   (C)   Railroad and highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited access
highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall
be treated as follows.
      (1)   (a)   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in
depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall
be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway.
         (b)   This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: “This strip is reserved for the planting of trees and
shrubs by the owner. The placement of structures hereon is prohibited”.
      (2)   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      (3)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   (D)   Access to major streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
existing or proposed major street, the Planning Commission may require that
access to such streets be limited. The number of residential streets entering a
major street shall be kept to a minimum.
   (E)   Street (residential).
      (1)   The following minimum standards shall apply to the design of
residential streets:
Design Minimum Standard
Design                                                     Minimum Standard
Right-of-way                                               60 ft.
Pavement width                                             31 ft.
Type of curb
   Combination concrete curb and gutter, IDOT Standard M18
Sidewalk width                                             4 ft.
Sidewalk distance from R-O-W                               1 ft.
Minimum centerline rad                                     250 ft.
Design speed                                               30 mph
 
   (F)   Street grades. The grade of major streets shall not exceed 5% unless
necessitated by exceptional topography and approved by the Planning Commission.
The grade of all other streets shall not exceed 6%. The minimum grade of all
streets shall be 0.4%. Pedestrian ways or crosswalks shall not exceed 12% grade
unless steps of an approved design are to be constructed. Curb ramps at
intersections shall conform to IDOT Standard 2356-2 (curb ramps accessible to
the disabled).
   (G)   Tangents. A tangent at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on major arterials and collector streets.
   (H)   Culs-de-sac, dead-end streets, stub streets.
      (1)   A cul-de-sac shall not be longer than 600 feet in residential
subdivisions, as measured from the center of the intersection to the center
point of the cul-de-sac.
      (2)   The diameter of a cul-de-sac turnaround (measured at the outside
right-of-way) shall be not less than 120 feet with a pavement diameter of not
less than 100 feet.
      (3)   All dead-end streets or stub streets shall be improved to the
limits of the subdivision plat and terminated by a barricade improvement
recommended by the Village Engineer, approved by the Village Board of Trustees
and installed by the developer at his or her own expense.
   (I)   Half-streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so
as to eliminate or avoid half-streets. Where a new subdivision abuts an
existing street of inadequate right-of-way width, additional right-of-way width
may be required to be dedicated by the subdivider to meet the requirements of
this section.
   (J)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 70 degrees shall not be acceptable. Not more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with an existing intersection on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where
streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
      (3)   Minimum curb radius shall be 25 feet. In any case where more
dedication is deemed necessary to provide safe sight distance or for traffic
channelization, the Planning Commission may specify a greater cutoff than the
normal cited above. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within
a block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering
practice, to permit safe vehicular movement.
      (4)   Where the grade of any street at the approach of an intersection
exceeds 5%, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than 4% grade
a distance of 25 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of
intersecting street.
      (5)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In no case shall the vertical alignment within the intersection area
exceed 4%.
      (6)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   (K)   Street names. All street names are to be approved by the Planning
Commission and the United States post office prior to final map approval. No
street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with the names
of existing streets. New streets which are extensions of or obviously in
alignment with existing streets shall bear the name of the existing streets.
   (L)   Street paving. Designated surface treatments shall meet the
specifications of the Illinois Department of Transportation. All construction
methods and materials shall conform to the applicable sections of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois, latest edition.
Surfacing shall consist of a bituminous surface plant fix or equivalent
bituminous mat of a minimum of two inch thickness constructed on a ten-inch
minimum compacted gravel or crushed stone base.
   (M)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be required in residential areas.
   (N)   Stormwater drainage system. The stormwater drainage system shall be
separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. Subdividers shall submit
a drainage plan/stormwater management plan conforming to the requirements of
Chapter 153, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances simultaneous to
the filing of a preliminary or final plat.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.107 EASEMENTS.
   In all new residential subdivisions, all utilities, community action cables,
electrical and telephone distributions systems, or any other commercial service
shall be laid underground, including storm, water, gas, drainage and sewer.
   (A)   Easements; generally.
      (1)   Easements for electrical, telephone and cable television services
shall be a minimum of ten feet wide; be established where practicable at the
rear of each lot and along other such lot lines as to provide continuity of
alignment from block to block; and be installed underground within easements or
dedicated public ways.
      (2)   Underground street light supply lines should be designated on the
plat and necessary easements provided to furnish access to such positions.
Easement provisions as set forth in §
154.093 (E) should appear on the face of each final plat.
   (B)   Utility easements. Easements not less than five feet wide should be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines and where necessary, alongside lot
lines. An easement provision, as set forth in §
154.093 (E) shall appear on the face of each final plat.
   (C)   Traversed by watercourse.
      (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and of
such width or construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose.
      (2)   Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained
by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum
potential volume of flow.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.108 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions of this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
      (2)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block length in residential areas shall not exceed 1,000 feet nor be less than
400 feet in length.
   (B)   Nonresidential blocks. Blocks designed for business, commercial or
industrial uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable
by the Planning Commission for the prospective use.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.109 LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   In general, the size, shape and orientation of lots shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the
village’s zoning regulations, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   However, in any residential district, on a lot of record on the
effective date hereof, a single-family dwelling may be established regardless
of the size of the lot, provided all the requirements of this chapter are
complied with.
   (B)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-
street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the village’s zoning regulations,
as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Every lot shall front on or abut a public street. Lots with access
only to private drives or streets shall be permitted only with the approval of
the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general stormwater drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   (F)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.120 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The subdivider, at his or her own expense, shall provide all improvements
required by this chapter in the manner prescribed by this section prior to the
recording of any lots or the sale of any lots or property within the platted
subdivision.
   (A)   Required improvements. The subdivider shall install street and utility
improvements, and other improvements indicated on the plat, as hereinafter
provided. If such improvements are not installed as required at the time the
final plat is submitted for approval, the subdivider shall, before the
recording of his or her plat enter into a contract with the village agreeing to
install the required improvements. The subdivider shall file, with said
contract, a bond or irrevocable letter of credit meeting the approval of the
Village Attorney and/or a certified check in an amount equal to the estimate of
cost prepared by the subdivider’s engineer and approved by the Village Engineer
or the contract bid price as submitted to the subdivider by a reputable
contractor. Such bond, or irrevocable letter of credit, or check shall
constitute a guarantee that such improvements will be completed by the
subdivider or his or her subcontractors not later than one year from the date
of recording of the plat, and that repairs necessitated by defects in material
or workmanship will be made during the period not to exceed two years from and
after completion of such improvements.
      (1)   If the improvements are not completed or repairs are not made
within the specified time periods, the Village Board of Trustees may use all or
any portion of the check or bond or irrevocable letter of credit to complete or
repair same. However, the Village Board of Trustees may, upon proof or
difficulty, extend the time for performance.
      (2)   Upon completion of the required improvements guaranteed by the
bond, or irrevocable letter or credit or certified check, and to ensure that
such improvements have been installed in accordance with the approved final
plat, a detailed “as-built” survey plat of the subdivision, indicating
location, dimensions, construction materials and other information required by
the Village Engineer, shall be submitted to the Village Board of Trustees or
its designee by the developer of the subdivision.
   (B)   Water and sewer facilities. Private water and sewage disposal systems
shall comply with all requirements of the County Health Department.
   (C)   Stormwater. Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the developer
shall install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters
subject to the requirements of
Chapter 53, Stormwater Management, of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Street grading. The subdivider shall furnish drawings which indicate
the existing and proposed grades of streets shown on the plat, and shall grade
or cause to be graded the full width of the right-of-way of the streets
proposed to be dedicated. The bed for the roadways in the street right-of-way
shall be graded to sub-grade. The Village Engineer shall approve the plans
prior to the time the Planning Commission recommends approval of the final
plat.
   (E)   Street and sidewalk surfacing.
      (1)   The subdivider shall construct curbs and gutters and shall surface
or cause to be surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in §§
154.105  through
154.109 . Said surfacing shall be of such character as is suitable for the
expected traffic and in harmony with similar improvements in the surrounding
areas.
      (2)   Adequate provision shall also be made for culverts, drains and
bridges. Dedicated walkways shall be improved by the subdivider.
      (3)   Such work shall be done in accordance with plans prepared by the
developer and approved by the Village Engineer. The work shall be inspected by
the Village Engineer.
   (F)   Monuments. The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required herein and as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by iron pins at least 36 inches long and five-eighths inch in diameter.
      (2)   All lot corners, internal boundaries, block corners and each end of
all curves shall be monumented in the field by monuments as described above.
      (3)   All such monuments shall be set in such a manner that they will not
be removed by frost.
      (4)   In each platted subdivision, there shall be set a minimum of two
concrete monuments, not less than 36 inches in length, not less than four
inches square or five inches in diameter, and marked on top with a cross, brass
plug, iron rod or other durable material securely embedded. These monuments
shall be placed near opposite ends of the subdivision.
      (5)   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground by a registered
state professional land surveyor.
   (G)   Street trees. Street trees having a trunk diameter (measured 12 inches
above the ground level) of not less than two inches may be planted along all
residential streets. Only oak, honey locust, hard maples, ginkgo or other long-
lived shade trees acceptable to the Village Board of Trustees, may be planted.
   (H)   Other improvements. It is also desirable to install other improvements
such as electric lines, gas mains, and similar facilities in any subdivision.
Whenever the Village Board of Trustees deems it necessary, they may require
that any such improvements shall be installed before the plat is approved.
   (I)   Topsoil. Topsoil shall not be removed from the residential lots or
used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches
of cover on the lots and at least four inches of cover between sidewalks and
curbs, and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
   (J)   Street lighting and marking.
      (1)   Provisions and installation shall be made for the adequate lighting
and name markers of public streets within the proposed subdivision in
accordance with the standards and requirements established by the governing
authorities.
      (2)   The street marking signs will be furnished and erected by the
village. The subdivider will be responsible for all costs incurred by the
village in performing this work.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   A person who disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or resists
the enforcement of any of the zoning provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $750. Upon written notification that a
violation of this chapter exists, the person notified shall have 15 days to
eliminate such violation and/or comply with this chapter. Each day such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after the expiration of
such 15-day period shall constitute a separate offense. The Village Board of
Trustees may extend such 15-day period in such cases as it deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 2015-16, passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Designation
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Interpretations
   
155.004   Definitions
   
155.005   Jurisdiction
   
155.006   Use restrictions
   
155.007   Site restrictions
   
155.008   General development procedure
   
155.009   Group living facilities
   
155.010   Establishment of zoning districts and map
Residential Districts
   
155.025   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
155.026   R-2 Single-Family Residential District
   
155.027   R-3 Two- and Multi-Family Residence Districts
Business Districts
   
155.040   B-1 Business Districts
   
155.041   B-2 Business Districts
Manufacturing Districts
   
155.055   M-1 Manufacturing Districts
Signs
   
155.070   Purpose
   
155.071   Definitions
   
155.072   Signs allowed in all districts without a permit
   
155.073   Temporary signs
   
155.074   Permit required
   
155.075   Special event signs requiring permit
   
155.076   General prohibitions
   
155.077   Signs and outdoor advertising sign structures specifically prohibited
in all districts
   
155.078   Administrative action; notice
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.090   Purpose
   
155.091   Required zoning for off-street parking and loading facilities
   
155.092   Number of spaces by use
   
155.093   Calculations of number of spaces
   
155.094   Multiple users
   
155.095   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
155.096   Size of spaces
   
155.097   Parking layout drawing and design
   
155.098   Surfacing
   
155.099   Use of parking facilities
   
155.100   Parking facility lighting
   
155.101   Required setbacks
   
155.102   Distribution vehicle spaces
   
155.103   Loading/unloading berth
Non-Conforming Structures of Uses
   
155.115   Non-conforming structures
   
155.116   Non-conforming uses
   
155.117   Non-conforming variance permitted by Planning Commission
   
155.118   Termination of non-conforming uses or buildings
   
155.119   Substandard lots
   
155.120   Certificate of non-conforming uses
Special Uses; Planned Unit Development
   
155.135   Special uses
   
155.136   Planned unit development procedure
   
155.137   Special use procedure
Variances
   
155.150   Authority
   
155.151   Initiation
   
155.152   Processing
   
155.153   Standards
   
155.154   Average front yards
   
155.155   Noise exemptions
Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.170   Establishment and membership
   
155.171   Organization
   
155.172   Jurisdiction and authority
   
155.173   Appeals and applications
   
155.174   Hearings
Zoning Enforcement and Administration
   
155.185   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
155.186   Foundation inspection
   
155.187   Violations
Zoning Changes and Amendments
   
155.200   Authority
   
155.201   Initiation
   
155.202   Petitions
   
155.203   Public hearings and recommendations
   
155.204   Passage
   
155.205   Protest
Industrial Performance Standards
   
155.220   General
   
155.221   Noise
   
155.222   Vibrations
   
155.223   Smoke and particulate matter
   
155.224   Toxic and noxious matter
   
155.225   Odorous matter
   
155.226   Fire and explosive hazards
   
155.227   Glare and heat
Solar Energy Systems
   
155.240   Definitions
   
155.241   Solar permit and fees
   
155.242   Accessory use
   
155.243   Principal use
Communication Towers and Antennas
   
155.255   Purpose and policy
   
155.256   Definitions
   
155.257   Local regulation
   
155.258   Facilities located on village property
   
155.259   Setback and maximum height requirements
   
155.260   Noise and emission standards
   
155.261   Abandonment
   
155.262   Approval process for all towers
Small Wireless Facilities
   
155.275   Purpose
   
155.276   Definitions
   
155.277   Permitted use
   
155.278   Permit requirements
   
155.279   Application fees
   
155.280   Collocation requirements and conditions
   
155.281   Annual fee
   
155.282   Miscellaneous
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   When adopted by the Village Board, this comprehensive chapter shall be
known, cited and referred to as the “Village of Forreston Zoning Ordinance”.
Within the text, it is referred to as “this chapter”.
   (B)   “The village” as referenced here within shall be known as the Village
of Forreston, Ogle County, Illinois, as defined by the corporate limits as
presented on the official map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
   (A)   To promote and protect the health, safety, comforts and general
welfare of the people;
   (B)   To divide the village into zones or districts restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residential, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the village, and to promote orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air, to protect the public health and provide convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within each lot;
   (F)   To establish reasonable standards to which buildings or structures
shall conform, including, but not limited to, dimensional standards;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (H)   To prevent additions, alterations or remodeling of existing buildings
or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations
imposed hereunder;
   (I)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for off-street
parking of motor vehicles and loading of commercial vehicles;
   (J)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (K)   To prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures,
in so far as is possible and appropriate in each zoning district as defined by
this chapter, by regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the
land surrounding them;
   (L)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village;
   (M)   To provide for the elimination of non-conforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
   (N)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein; and
   (O)   To provide for enforcement of and penalties for violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.003 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for promotion of public
health, safety, morals and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this chapter upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision of this chapter, or any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive (or which impose higher standards or requirements) shall
govern.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement, providing that where the regulations of this chapter
are more restrictive (or impose higher standards or requirements) than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future. Words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and words used in
the plural number shall include the singular number, where the context
requires.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The word “lot” shall include the words “piece”, “parcel” and
“tracts”; and the phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
      (5)   All measured dimensions shall be to the nearest inch.
      (6)   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their
generally accepted meanings, as defined in the most recent publication of
Webster’s Dictionary.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS. The right to cross from public to private property, allowing
pedestrians and vehicles to enter and leave private property.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A use or structure incidental and subordinate to the
main use of the property that is located on the same lot as the main use. Where
a substantial part of a wall of an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is a part of a wall of
the main structure, or where an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is attached to the main
structure in a substantial manner (as by a roof), such ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
shall be considered part of the main structure. Private swimming pools are to
be considered an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental and subordinate to the main use of the
property and located on the same lot as the main use. These include, but are
not limited to: storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same
lot with any retail service or business use, unless otherwise prohibited by
this chapter; storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities
on the same lot with such activities, unless otherwise prohibited by this
chapter; off street parking areas; and loading and unloading facilities.
      ALLEY. A street which affords only a secondary means of access to
property.
      ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. See definition of “structural alteration”.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which
is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping
unit. Complete kitchen and bath facilities, permanently installed, must be
included for each APARTMENT.
      AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE WASH. A building, or portion thereof, where vehicles
are routinely washed using either manual or automated systems.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of
worn or damaged motor vehicles or trailers, collision service, including body,
frame straightening or repair and overall painting of vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and
motor service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
“automobile repair, major”.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A facility where gasoline and/or diesel
(stored only in underground tanks), kerosene, lubricating oil or grease and
minor accessories for operation of motor vehicles, are offered for sale
directly to the public, on the premises.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Premises used for the storage or sale of used
automobile or truck parts and/or for the storage, dismantling or abandonment of
junked or obsolete automobiles, trailers, trucks, machinery or parts thereof.
      AWNING. A roof-like covering which projects from the wall of a building
or overhangs the public way.
      BASEMENT. A story where more than one-half of its height is above the
established curb level or above the average level of the adjoining ground where
the curb level has not been established. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A residential building or portion thereof, other than a
motel, apartment hotel or hotel, containing lodging rooms for accommodation of
three or more persons who are not members of the keeper’s family, and where
lodging or meals or both are provided by pre-arrangement and for definite
periods, at a definite prearranged price.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or in lieu of a street or
streets, by a public park, cemetery, railroad right-of-way, bulkhead lines, a
shoreline of a waterway or a boundary line of the village.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a lot after the minimum open space
requirements of this chapter, or any other ordinance, has been compiled with.
      BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and a roof, that is
securely affixed to the land, which is designed or intended for the shelter,
enclosure or protection of persons, animals, machinery or property of any kind.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level
or its equivalent established grade at the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line
of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof; provided that where buildings are set back from
the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
      BUILDING, NON-CONFORMING. Any building which does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main use of the
lot on which it is situated.
      BUILDING LINE. A line, parallel to the lot line, at a distance from it
regulated by the yard requirements set up in this chapter.
      BULK. The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of the same with respect to one another, including
the following:
         (a)   Size and height of buildings;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets or other buildings;
         (c)   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor
area ratio);
         (d)   All open spaces allocated to the building;
         (e)   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit; and
         (f)   Required parking areas.
      BUSINESS. A concern engaged in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, services, wares or merchandise; and the maintenance of operation of
offices or recreational or amusement enterprises for profit.
      CAR LOT. An area on which vehicles are displayed for sale or trade.
      CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below the curb
level or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurements.
      CLUB or LODGE, PRIVATE. A non-profit association of persons (who are bona
fide members paying annual dues) which owns, hires or leases a building, or
portion thereof.
      CONDOMINIUM. One structure containing two or more dwelling units, each
dwelling unit under separate ownership.
      CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS. A tract of land containing two or more
condominiums to be platted in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois
Condominium Property Act (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq., as amended).
      CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one
street the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the level of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street. Where no curb elevations have been
established, the mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
      DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound.
Sound level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in DECIBELS.
      DISTRICT. An area or section of the village defined on the official map
by lot lines, centerlines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way or such
center lines extended, center lines of creeks, or the corporate limit line,
assigned zoning characteristics.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a house
trailer or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units and multiple-
family dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels or boarding or lodging
houses.
         (a)   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, designed
for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.
         (b)   DWELLING, ROW. A row of two or more attached one-family, party-
wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half stories in height, nor more than
two rooms in depth measured from the building line.
         (c)   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached building containing one
dwelling unit and designed for occupancy by one family only.
         (d)   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A detached building containing two
dwelling units and designed for occupancy by two families.
         (e)   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building designed for
occupancy by one family and having not more than one cooking facility.
      FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
legal adoption or legal guardianship, living together as one housekeeping unit
using one kitchen, and providing meals or lodging to not more than two
additional persons, excluding servants; or a group of not more than five
unrelated persons living together as one housekeeping unit using one kitchen.
      FREQUENCY. The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave
measuring the pitch of the resulting sound.
      FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between the
nearest intersecting streets or between a street and a right of way, waterway
or other similar barrier.
      FUEL BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha,
benzene, benzol, kerosene, or other flammable liquid which has a flash point of
below 200ºF (closed cup tester) is stored for wholesale purposes, where the
aggregate capacity of all storage tanks is more than 6,000 gallons.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory structure, or portion of the
principal building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for storage
by the occupants of the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building used for the care, incidental servicing or
sale of automobile supplies, or where more than one vehicle is parked or stored
for a fee, for hire or for sale within the structure, but not including trucks,
tractors, truck trailers and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-half ton
capacity.
      GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK. A building which is used or intended to be used for
the storage of trucks, tractors, truck trailers and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half ton capacity.
      GRADE, GROUND LEVEL. The average elevation of the finished ground at the
centers of all walls of a building, except that if a wall is parallel to and
within five feet of a sidewalk, the sidewalk elevation nearest the center of
the wall shall constitute the ground elevation.
      GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located
on the same premises with the principal building, for use by temporary guests
of the occupants of the principal building.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. See the definition of “building height”.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use or activity conducted entirely within a
principal building or within a structure accessory thereto, by a person or
persons who reside therein, provided that:
         (a)   It does not result in any alteration of the appearance of the
dwelling unit;
         (b)   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary residential use of the property;
         (c)   There is no exterior storage of materials and no exterior
indication of the home occupation except for a sign not exceeding one and one-
half square feet in size, non-illuminated, and attached to the principal
building;
         (d)   It does not result in the production of any additional noise,
vibration, light, odor, dust, fumes, smoke or traffic detectable to the normal
human senses, outside the principal building or the building accessory thereto;
         (e)   No article shall be sold or offered for sale except such as may
be produced on the premises by a person or persons residing therein. No retail
sales of articles or products shall be made except those incidental to the home
occupation;
         (f)   The home occupation is limited to a designated area of the
residential property not exceeding 300 square feet in size, including storage;
         (g)   The home occupation has been registered with the village in the
required format as requested on forms available from the Village Clerk;
         (h)   It does not result in any material or equipment used in
conjunction with the business which may constitute a hazard, create a nuisance
or interfere with the reception or broadcast of signals; and
         (i)   Animal hospitals or kennels shall not be deemed a home
occupation.
      HOSPITAL.
         (a)   An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for not less than
24 hours in any week of three or more non-related individuals suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical conditions.
         (b)   The term HOSPITAL as used in this chapter does not apply to
institutions operating solely for the treatment of insanity, substance abuse or
cases necessitating restraint of patients, and the term HOSPITAL shall not
include convalescent homes, nursing homes, shelter houses or boarding houses.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which more than five rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests.
      JUNKYARD. Any place where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled or
handled outside a completely enclosed building.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more
than four dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals, over four months of
age are kept, or on which more than two such animals are boarded for
compensation.
      LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study or testing and
analyzing substances.
      LINE OF BUILDING. See the definition of “building line”.
      LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals of types customarily raised or kept on farms
for profit or other purposes.
      LIVESTOCK FEEDING YARD. An enclosure designed or used for the purpose of
the concentrated feeding or fattening of livestock for marketing.
      LIVESTOCK SALES YARD. An enclosure or structure designed or used for
holding livestock for purposes of sale or transfer by auction, consignment or
other means.
      LIVING AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls
or from the centerline of party walls separating two buildings. In particular,
LIVING AREA shall include:
         (a)   Basement space if at least one-half of the basement story height
is above the established curb or ground level;
         (b)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural
headroom exceeds seven and one-half feet, except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof (e.g., bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers);
         (c)   Interior balconies and mezzanines; and
         (d)   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways
      LODGING HOUSE. A building which is equipped to provide lodging for eight
or more persons for compensation, by previous arrangement, for definite periods
of time.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE. An open, hard-surfaced area of land other
than a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for the standing,
loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers.
      LOT. The word “lot” when used alone shall mean a tract designated as such
on a plat properly recorded.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot,
exclusive of streets and easements providing access to other property.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets (other than an alley) at
their intersection.
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the (front) lot line which runs along a
public street. For a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line to
define the LOT FRONTAGE.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
         (a)   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line common with another lot.
         (b)   LOT LINE, REAR. The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines
most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
         (c)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
      MOBILE HOME. A vehicle without motive power originally sold with a title
and serial number used or adaptable for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel within the village limits platted with the
intent for mobile home occupancy.
      MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building in which freight, brought to said
building by truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and
interstate shipment by truck.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building or structure or portion thereof,
lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, which does not
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at
the time of adoption of this chapter, and which does not conform to the use
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      NON-RETAIL COMMERCIAL. Commercial sales and services to customers who
intend resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, NON-
RETAIL COMMERCIAL includes wholesale activities, warehousing, trucking
terminals and similar commercial enterprises.
       NURSING HOME OR REST HOME. A home for the care of the aged or infirm, or
a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but not including
facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for surgical care.
      OCTAVE BAND. A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into
octaves in order to classify sound according to pitch.
      OCTAVE BAND FILTER. An electrical frequency analyzer, designed according
to standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals. (American Standard for Sound Level Meters, ASA No. 224.3-1944).
      PARCEL DELIVERY STATION. A building in which commodities, sold at retail,
are assembled and routed for delivery to retail customers located within the
area.
      PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the parking of private passenger
vehicles only of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is accessory.
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or public way,
used for the parking of passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles under one
and one-half ton capacity, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
      PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area
of not less than 180 square feet (nine by 20 feet), exclusive of access drive,
or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the parking of one
passenger vehicle or commercial vehicle under one and one-half ton capacity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which is developed initially as
a unit under single ownership or control, which includes two or more principal
buildings and which is at least seven acres in area for a residential planned
development, five acres for a business planned development, two acres for a
planned development operated by a municipal corporation, and ten acres for a
manufacturing planned development.
      PORCH. A permanent roofed-over structure, projecting from a wall or
affixed to the walls of a main structure.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
      SIGN. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote any individual firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product, and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrian way.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor above it. Any portion of a STORY exceeding
14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional STORY for each 14 feet
or fraction thereof.
      STORY, HALF.
         (a)   A half story is that portion of a building under a gable, hip or
mansard roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls,
are not more than four and one-half feet above the finished floor of each
story.
         (b)   In the case of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and
multiple-family dwellings less than three stories in height, a half-story in a
sloping roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this chapter.
In the case of multiple-family dwellings three or more stories in height, a
half-story shall be counted as a story.
      STREET. A public right-of-way for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      STRUCTURE. Something constructed or built having a fixed base on, or a
fixed connection to, the ground or another structure.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a
structure including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams,
girders or any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
      USE, SPECIAL. A use which may be acceptable within the intent of
comprehensive plan elements, but which is not adequately controlled by the
standards defined in this chapter.
      USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
zoning district or districts provided it conforms with all requirements,
regulations and performance standards, if any, of such district.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or special use.
      YARD. The open space on a lot with a building or group of buildings,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward, except as otherwise
permitted in this chapter. See also the definition of “lot coverage”.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
      YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required front yard) to the
required rear yard.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. See §
155.185 .
      ZONING LOT. A parcel of land which (at the time of filing for building
permit) is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used,
developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
Therefore, a ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
      ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as
part thereof, designating zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.005 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all land and waters within
the corporate limits of the village. This chapter shall become effective upon
adoption by the Village Board. All buildings erected thereafter, all uses of
land or buildings established thereafter, all structural alterations or
relocation of existing buildings occurring thereafter, and all enlargements or
additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in
which such buildings, uses or lands are located.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.006 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Principal uses. Only those principal uses specified for a district or
on a planned unit development plat, their essential services, and the following
uses shall be allowed in that district.
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures are allowed in any district, but not
until their principal structure is present or under construction.
   (C)   Special uses and their accessory uses are allowed in districts as
specified, but only according to the special use procedure in §§
155.135  through
155.137  hereof. Also, any development within 500 feet of existing or proposed
rights-of-way of freeways, expressways, interstate and controlled access
trafficways, or within 1,500 feet of their existing or proposed interchange or
turning lane rights-of-way shall be deemed to be special use. Such development
shall be specifically reviewed by the community’s Planning Commission, as
provided in §§
155.170  through
155.174 .
   (D)   Unclassified or unspecified uses. In cases of uncertainty, where the
Zoning Enforcement Officer is unable to determine whether a use is allowed as a
principal or accessory use, the Planning Commission shall be consulted for an
interpretation.
   (E)   Temporary uses, such as real estate sales field offices or shelters
for materials and equipment being used in the construction of a permanent
structure, are allowed while sales or construction are in progress.
   (F)   Performance standards listed in §§
155.220  through
155.227  hereof shall apply to all uses in all zoning districts.
   (G)   Temporary dwellings. No structure shall be used for dwelling purposes
that does not comply with the requirements of this chapter or any applicable
building standards. No garage or other accessory building, wheeled vehicles
designed for sleeping or camping, basement partial or temporary structure,
whether of a fixed or portable construction, shall be erected or moved onto a
lot and used for any dwelling purposes unless authorized by the issuance of a
temporary use permit by the Zoning Enforcement Officer and satisfying all of
the conditions thereof. In addition, temporary usage of lots of record, either
with or without dwellings, may be allowed for wheeled vehicles designed for
sleeping or camping by obtaining a temporary use permit from the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
   (H)   Mobile home. No mobile home shall be allowed except when located in a
mobile home park or as otherwise herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.007 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Soil conditions. No land shall be used or structure erected where the
land is held unsuitable for such use or structure by the Planning Commission
because of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or
rock formation, unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing
strength, erosion susceptibility or any other feature likely to be harmful to
the health, safety, prosperity, aesthetics and general welfare of the village.
The Planning Commission, in applying the provisions of this section, shall in
writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that the
land is not suitable for certain uses. The applicant shall have an opportunity
to present evidence contesting such unsuitability, if he or she so desires.
Thereafter, the Planning Commission may affirm, modify or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   All lots shall abut upon a public thoroughfare with at least 30 feet
of frontage.
   (C)   Any lot of record created prior to the effective date of this chapter
without any frontage on a public street or way shall not be occupied unless
access to a street is provided by an easement or other right-of-way no less
than 20 feet in width. Access to commercial, industrial or recreational uses
shall not be permitted through residential areas.
   (D)   The finished surface of ground areas outside the walls of any building
or structure hereafter erected, altered or moved shall be so designed that
surface water shall flow away from the building walls in such a direction and
with such a method of collection that inconvenience or damage to adjacent
properties will not result. When property is developed adjacent to existing
properties previously developed, existing grades shall have priority.
   (E)   Nothing within this chapter shall be construed to prevent compliance
with an order by the appropriate authority to correct, improve, strengthen or
restore to a safe or healthy condition any part of a building or premises
declared unsafe or unhealthy.
   (F)   Only one principal structure shall be located, erected or moved onto
any lot or parcel of land.
   (G)   No building permit shall be issued for a lot that abuts a public
street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width and located on that
side thereof from which the required dedication has not been secured.
   (H)   Private sewer and water. Private potable water distribution systems or
private sewage systems are not permitted within any zoning district of the
village.
   (I)   Reduction of joint use. No lot, yard, parking area, building area or
other space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to not meet the
provisions of this chapter. No part of any lot, yard, parking area or other
space required for a structure or use shall be used for any other structure or
use.
   (J)   Substandard lots. Any residential lot in a single ownership, which
ownership was of record at the time of the adoption of this chapter, that does
not meet the requirements of this chapter for yards or other areas of open
space may be utilized for single residence purposes, provided the available
yard area, width, depth and open space are within 75% of those required by the
terms of this chapter. The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization
of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable
living standards can be provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.008 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission and the village shall continuously develop their
comprehensive plan, including their planning policies, to guide future
decisions. All adopted comprehensive plan elements, in whatever degree of
detail they may embody, shall provide the basis for approval of all development
under this chapter, and no development shall be approved under this chapter
which is in conflict with any comprehensive plan elements that have been
formally adopted.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.009 GROUP LIVING FACILITIES.
   The public policy of the village is hereby expressed to specifically provide
for and permit the establishment of group living facilities within the village,
subject to the terms and provisions of this code of ordinances, as the same
exists and as the same may be from time to time amended.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.010 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, all land within the village is hereby
designated on the Zoning District Map as being in one of the following
districts:
      (1)   R-1 District: Single Family Residential;
      (2)   R-2 District: Single Family Residential;
      (3)   R-3 District: Multi Family Residential;
      (4)   B-1   District: Business; and
      (5)   M-1 District: Manufacturing.
   (B)   Zoning District Map. The locations and boundaries of the districts
established herein are shown upon the Zoning District Map, which is hereby
incorporated into these standards. The Zoning District Map, together with all
notations, references and other information shown thereon, and all amendments
thereto, shall be a part hereof and shall have the same force and effect as if
it were fully set forth herein.
   (C)   Boundaries of districts. Unless otherwise indicated on the Zoning
District Map, the boundary lines of the districts follow lot lines, center
lines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way or such center lines
extended, center lines of creeks or the corporate limit line as existing at the
time of adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   Prior to the annexation of any territory to the village, a proposed
plan for zoning the area to be annexed shall be forwarded to the Village Board
by the Planning Commission. Upon tentative approval of such plan, the Village
Board shall direct the Village Planning Commission to hold a public hearing to
solicit comments. Following the public hearing, the Village Board shall issue a
final approval of the proposed plan, unless it is found necessary to return it
to the Planning Commission for modifications. Final approval may include any
modifications or conditions the Village Board may see fit to impose pursuant to
the intent of this chapter.
   (E)   If the use of any area on the Zoning District Map (such as schools,
parks, playgrounds and other public uses) is abandoned or terminated, such area
shall by action of the Village Board be classified as the R-1 District, subject
to the regulations and restrictions applicable thereto, unless and until its
classification is changed by amendment to the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.025 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, home occupations and accessory uses; and
      (2)   Public service uses, including water filtration plants, water
reservoirs, pumping stations, sewage treatment plants, police and fire
stations, telephone exchanges, electrical substations and other similar public
service uses.
   (B)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135 through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after required findings have been
made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission: Public or private community facilities such as
schools, churches, cemeteries, libraries, parks or hospitals.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Lot size:
         (a)   Minimum area: 12,800 square feet; and
         (b)   Minimum width at building line: 80 feet.
      (2)   (a)   Minimum set back for yard space:
            1.   Front: 25 feet;
            2.   Rear: 25 feet; and
            3.   Side: 10% of lot width (no less than 3 feet).
         (b)   For residential lots adjacent to public rights-of-way, reverse
corner lots, the front yard set back shall apply to both sides of said lot
adjacent to right-of-way.
      (3)   Building requirements:
         (a)   Maximum ground coverage: 35% of lot area;
         (b)   Maximum height: 35 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum living house area: 1,000 square feet.
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses:
         (a)   1.   An accessory structure or use may not be located nearer to
any lot line than that permitted for the principal building; however
            2.   When an accessory structure or use is located in the rear
yard, it may be located within three feet of the interior lot line, but not
less than five feet from the rear lot line.
         (b)   An accessory structure or use shall not begin prior to the
establishment or construction of the principal building to which it is intended
to be accessory; and
         (c)   No accessory structure or use shall be located on a corner lot
beyond the front yard required on either adjacent lot, nor be located nearer
than five feet to the side lot line of the adjacent lot.
   (D)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  and the following special requirements:
      (1)   Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be on the same lot
(s) with the principal building they serve;
      (2)   One off-street parking space is required for each dwelling unit;
      (3)   No parking facilities accessory to a multiple family use shall be
located in the R-1 District; and
      (4)   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
Village Board as prescribed in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for the R-1 Residential
District:
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food, gas);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches); and
         (c)   Businesses and business districts.
      (2)   Non-flashing, non-illuminated accessory signs, as follows:
         (a)   Nameplates or identification signs, subject to the following: No
more than one nameplate, not exceeding one and one-half square feet in area,
for each dwelling unit, indicating the name or address of the occupant or a
permitted occupation, provided that on a corner lot two such nameplates for
each dwelling unit, one facing each street, shall be permitted;
         (b)   Church bulletin boards that shall not exceed 24 square feet in
area;
         (c)   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public
right-of-way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than one story, or 20 feet above
the curb elevation, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Signs advertising the sale or rental of property upon which the
sign is located, provided:
         (a)   Signs advertising the sale of one residential lot shall not
exceed nine square feet;
         (b)   Signs for the sale of property within an approved subdivision or
for a single parcel of more than 40 acres shall not exceed 100 square feet and
shall be permitted for a period of not more than two years, except that a
permit may be renewed annually for a period not to exceed one year;
         (c)   The sign is located as directed by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, but in no case shall a sign be located closer than ten feet to any
other zoning lot nor project beyond the property line into the public right-of-
way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than eight feet above the road
level.
   (F)   Allowable obstructions within yard areas include:
      (1)   Terraces;
      (2)   Awnings;
      (3)   Chimneys, not exceeding 3% of the width of the yard;
      (4)   Steps not over four feet in height;
      (5)   Arbors and trellises;
      (6)   Fences or walls providing that:
         (a)   The fence is located in the rear or side lot only;
         (b)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any public
right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (c)   No part of the fence exceeds six feet in height;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot;
         (e)   If the subject site is a corner lot, the fence conforms to the
applicable front yard setback for both of the adjacent public right-of-way;
         (f)   The fence must be located on the owner’s property. The building
permit applicant and owner are solely responsible and liable for determining
the location of property lines. The village assumes no responsibility for
locating property lines;
         (g)   Fence materials allowed are: Wood (decorative fencing); chain
link; vinyl; composite; and wrought iron fencing. Wooden pallet fencing is not
allowed. Pictures or in-depth description must be submitted before approval;
and
         (h)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any primary
residence located on an adjacent lot, provided, that the Zoning Enforcement
Officer may require a greater distance if necessary to allow reasonable access
to such adjacent residence.
      (7)   Decorative fences shall be permitted in the front yard, provided
that:
         (a)   The total length of the fence in any direction does not exceed
ten feet parallel with any lot line;
         (b)   No part of the decorative fence exceeds four feet in height;
         (c)   The decorative fence is located no less than two feet from any
public right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot; and
         (e)   The design is not greater than 33% opaque and does not prohibit
sight through the fence.
      (8)   Porches, provided that:
         (a)   The structure satisfies the definition presented in §
155.004  of this chapter;
         (b)   The footprint of the structure does not encroach on the
applicable set back more than 10 feet or result in a net decrease of greater
than 20% of the applicable set back which ever is less; and
         (c)   The structure is an “open-air” structure thereby not possessing
walls, windows, screens, doors or other like items causing it to not be exposed
to the elements year around.
      (9)   Open parking areas.
   (G)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools are governed by §§
150.105  through
150.113 .
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002; Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-
1-2018; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 155.026 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, any existing or
proposed lot or lots, or tracts of land within or adjacent to, or intended for
annexation into, the village which is not zoned R-2 according to the official
map as adopted by the Village Board may not be zoned as R-2.
   (B)   Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, home occupations, and accessory uses; and
      (2)   Public service uses, including water filtration plants, water
resen/oirs, pumping stations, sewage treatment plants, police and fire
stations, telephone exchanges, electrical substations and other similar public
service uses.
   (C)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135  through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after required findings have been
made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission: Public or private community facilities such as
schools, churches, cemeteries, libraries, parks or hospitals.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements include:
      (1)   Lot size:
         (a)   Minimum area: 8,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Minimum width at building line: 66 feet.
      (2)   (a)   Minimum set back for yard space:
            1.   Front: 25 feet;
            2.   Rear: 25 feet; and
            3.   Side: 10% of lot width (no less than 3 feet).
         (b)   For residential lots adjacent to public rights-of-way, reverse
corner lots. The front yard set back shall apply to both sides of said lot
adjacent to right-of-way.
      (3)   Building requirements include:
         (a)   Maximum ground coverage: 35% of lot area;
         (b)   Maximum height: 35 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum living area: 850 square feet.
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses:
         (a)   An accessory structure or use may not be located nearer to any
interior lot line than that permitted for the principal building. However, when
an accessory structure or use is located in the rear yard, it may be located
within three feet of the interior lot line, but not less than five feet from
rear lot line;
         (b)   An accessory structure or use shall not begin prior to the
establishment or construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory, or which it is intended to be accessory; and
         (c)   No accessory structure or use shall be located on a corner lot
beyond the front yard required on either adjacent lot, nor be located nearer
than five feet to the side lot line of the adjacent lot.
   (E)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  and the following special requirements for the R-2 Residential
District:
      (1)   Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be on the same lot
with the principal building they serve;
      (2)   One off-street parking space is required for each dwelling unit;
      (3)   No parking facilities accessory to a multiple-family use shall be
located in the R-2 District; and
      (4)   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
Village Board as prescribed in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for the R-2 Residential
District:
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food and gas);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches and the
like); and
         (c)   Businesses and business districts.
      (2)   Non-flashing, non-illuminated accessory signs, as follows:
         (a)   Nameplates or identification signs, subject to the following: No
more than one nameplate, not exceeding one and one-half square feet in area,
for each dwelling unit, indicating the name or address of the occupant or a
permitted occupation, provided that on a corner lot two such nameplates for
each dwelling unit, one facing each street, shall be permitted;
         (b)   Church bulletin boards that shall not exceed 24 square feet in
area;
         (c)   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public
right-of-way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than one story, or 20 feet above
the curb elevation, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Signs advertising the sale or rental of property upon which the
sign is located provided:
         (a)   Signs advertising the sale of one residential lot shall not
exceed nine square feet;
         (b)   Signs for the sale of property within an approved subdivision or
for a single parcel of more than 40 acres shall not exceed 100 square feet and
shall be permitted for a period of not more than two years, except that a
permit may be renewed annually for a period not to exceed one year;
         (c)   The sign is located as directed by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, but in no case shall a sign be located closer than ten feet to any
other zoning lot nor project beyond the property line into the public right-of-
way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than eight feet above the road
level.
   (G)   Allowable obstructions within yard areas include:
      (1)   Terraces;
      (2)   Awnings;
      (3)   Chimneys, not exceeding 3% of the width of the yard;
      (4)   Steps not over four feet in height; and
      (5)   Arbors and trellises.
      (6)   Fences or walls, providing that:
         (a)   The fence is located in the rear or side lot only;
         (b)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any public
right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (c)   No part of the fence exceeds six feet in height;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot;
         (e)   If the subject site is a corner lot, the fence conforms to the
applicable front yard setback for both of the adjacent public right-of-way;
         (f)   The fence must be located on the owner’s property. The building
permit applicant and owner are solely responsible and liable for determining
the location of property lines. The village assumes no responsibility for
locating property lines;
         (g)   Fence materials allowed are: Wood (decorative fencing); chain
link; vinyl; composite and wrought iron fencing. Wooden pallet fencing is not
allowed. Pictures or in-depth description must be submitted before approval;
and
         (h)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any primary
residence located on an adjacent lot; provided, that the Zoning Enforcement
Officer may require a greater distance if necessary to allow reasonable access
to such adjacent residence.
      (7)   Decorative fences shall be permitted in the front yard, provided
that:
         (a)   The total length of the fence in any direction does not exceed
10 feet parallel with any lot line;
         (b)   No part of the decorative fence exceeds four feet in height.
         (c)   The decorative fence is located no less than two feet from any
public right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot; and
         (e)   The design is not greater than 33% opaque and does not prohibit
sight through the fence.
      (8)   Porches, provided that:
         (a)   The structure satisfies the definition presented in §
155.004 ;
         (b)   The footprint of the structure does not encroach on the
applicable set back more than 10 feet or result in a net decrease of greater
than 20% of the applicable set back which ever is less; and
         (c)   The structure is an “open-air” structure thereby not possessing
walls, windows, screens, doors or other like items causing it to not be exposed
to the elements year around.
      (9)   Open parking areas.
   (H)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools are governed by §§
150.105  through
150.113 .
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002; Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-
1-2018; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 155.027 R-3 TWO- AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Two-family and multi-family dwellings, home occupations and
accessory uses;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings in accordance with the conditions and
requirements set forth in the R-1 Residential District; and
      (3)   Public service uses, including water filtration plants, water
reservoirs, pumping stations, sewage treatment plants, police and fire
stations, telephone exchanges, electrical substations and other similar public
service uses.
   (B)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135 through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after required findings have been
made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission: Public or private community facilities, such as
schools, churches, cemeteries, libraries, parks or hospitals.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Lot size:
         (a)   Minimum area: 15,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Minimum width at building line: 80 feet.
      (2)   Maximum density: Multi-family: 15 dwelling units per acre, and 30
bedrooms per acre;
      (3)   (a)   Minimum set back for yard space:
            1.   Front: 25 feet;
            2.   Rear: 25 feet; and
            3.   Side: 5 feet.
         (b)   For residential lots adjacent to public rights-of-way, reverse
corner lots. The front yard set back shall apply to both sides of said lot
adjacent to right-of-way.
      (4)   Building requirements:
 
Minimum Living Area
Each additional bedroom 200 square feet
Efficiency apartment    500 square feet
Maximum ground coverage 40%
Maximum height          45 feet
One bedroom apartment   650 square feet
Two bedroom apartment   850 square feet
 
   (D)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  and the following special requirements for the R-3 Residential
District:
      (1)   An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use which has a parking requirement of more than four
parking spaces, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   One and a half parking spaces are required for each dwelling unit;
      (3)   Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be on the same lot
with the building they serve; and
      (4)   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
Village Board as prescribed in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for the R-3 Residential
District:
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the locations of, or directing traffic to given
locations, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food, gas and the like);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches and the
like); and
         (c)   Businesses and business districts.
      (2)   Non-flashing, non-illuminated accessory signs, as follows:
         (a)   Nameplates or identification signs, subject to the following: No
more than one nameplate, not exceeding one and one-half square feet in area,
for each dwelling unit, indicating the name or address of the occupant or a
permitted occupation, provided that on a corner lot two such nameplates for
each dwelling unit, one facing each street, shall be permitted;
         (b)   Church bulletin boards which shall not exceed 24 square feet in
area;
         (c)   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public
right-of-way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than one story, or 20 feet above
the curb elevation, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Signs advertising the sale or rental of property upon which the
sign is located provided:
         (a)   Signs advertising the sale of one residential lot shall not
exceed nine square feet;
         (b)   Signs for the sale of property within an approved subdivision of
for a single parcel of more than 40 acres shall not exceed 100 square feet and
shall be permitted for a period of not more than two years, except that a
permit may be renewed annually for a period not to exceed one year;
         (c)   The sign is located as directed by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer but in no case shall a sign be located closer than ten feet to any
other zoning lot nor project beyond the property line into the public right-of-
way; and
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than eight feet above the road
level.
   (F)   Allowable obstructions within yard areas include:
      (1)   Terraces;
      (2)   Awnings;
      (3)   Chimneys, not exceeding 3% of the width of the yard;
      (4)   Steps not over four feet in height;
      (5)   Arbors and trellises;
      (6)   Fences or walls, providing that:
         (a)   The fence is located in the rear or side lot only;
         (b)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any public
right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (c)   No part of the fence exceeds six feet in height;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot;
         (e)   If the subject site is a corner lot, the fence conforms to the
applicable front yard setback for both of the adjacent public right-of-way;
         (f)   The fence must be located on the owner’s property. The building
permit applicant and owner are solely responsible and liable for determining
the location of property lines. The village assumes no responsibility for
locating property lines;
         (g)   1.   Fence materials allowed are: Wood (decorative fencing);
chain link; vinyl; composite and wrought iron fencing.
            2. Wooden pallet fencing is not allowed. Pictures or in-depth
description must be submitted before approval; and
         (h)   The fence is erected no less than two feet from any primary
residence located on an adjacent lot; provided, that the Zoning Enforcement
Officer may require a greater distance if necessary to allow reasonable access
to such adjacent residence.
      (7)   Decorative fences shall be permitted in the front yard, provided
that:
         (a)   The total length of the fence in any direction does not exceed
ten feet parallel with any lot line;
         (b)   No part of the decorative fence exceeds four feet in height;
         (c)   The decorative fence is located no less than two feet from any
public right-of-way or permanent easement;
         (d)   The design provides for post side of fence to be interior to
lot; and
         (e)   The design is not greater than 33% opaque and does not prohibit
sight through the fence.
      (8)   Porches, provided that:
         (a)   The structure satisfies the definition presented in §
155.004 ;
         (b)   The footprint of the structure does not encroach on the
applicable set back more than ten feet or result in a net decrease of greater
than 20% of the applicable set back, whichever is less; and
         (c)   The structure is an “open-air” structure thereby not possessing
walls, windows, screens, doors or other like items causing it to not be exposed
to the elements year around.
      (9)   Open parking areas.
   (G)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools are governed by §§
150.105  through
150.113.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002; Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-
1-2018; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 155.040 B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Professional, business and government offices;
      (2)   Community facilities such as churches, libraries, art galleries,
parks or hospitals; and
      (3)   Residential dwellings, provided that:
         (a)   Each dwelling shall be located above the ground floor of the
building; and
         (b)   No more than _____ dwelling units shall be permitted in the
building.
   (B)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135 through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after the required findings have
been made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission:
      (1)   Consumer services. Processing is permitted only if all such
processing is performed as a consumer service for customers served on the
premises; and
      (2)   Private clubs and fraternal organizations.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of three stories, nor shall it exceed
35 feet in height measured from street height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances may
not be erected over and above a maximum height of 45 feet measured from the
adjacent street elevation without the approval of the Village Board.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be constructed or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such buildings:
         (a)   Front yard. No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two intersecting streets lies within this district. However, when lots
within the district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in a residential
district, all of which front upon the same street between two intersecting
streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the
frontage as has been established in the residential districts.
         (b)   Exception. When existing buildings located in this district have
already established a building line at the street line or at a depth less than
required above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the first 50 feet of the B-1 District frontage adjacent to a
residential district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not
less than ten feet.
         (c)   Side yards. No side yard is required, except for a corner lot
whose rear lot line abuts upon a residential district or upon an alley
separating this district from a residential district. There shall then be
provided a side yard equal to one-half the front yard required in the abutting
residential district, but in no case more than ten feet. The setback shall also
apply if the business building fronts the intersecting street, commonly
referred to as the side street.
         (d)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located thereon
(except for the five feet adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley
line) for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of
vehicles under roof.
   (D)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  of this chapter and the following special requirements for the B-
1 Business District.
      (1)   An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure, or use which has a parking requirement of more than four
parking spaces, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
located in the B-1 District.
      (3)   Special use public parking areas. Any automobile parking area
developed for transient trade, and not accessory to specific principal uses or
groups of uses for which parking is required by this chapter and those set
forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  of this document, shall be treated as a special use as defined in §§
155.135  through
155.137 , and as allowed in accordance with the provisions of §§
155.135  through
155.137  by the Village Board.
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided on the same lot or
parcel of land as the principal building being served, or on a separate lot or
parcel of land not over 1,000 feet from the entrance of the principal building,
measured from the nearest point of the parking area, provided the separate lot
or parcel of land intended for the parking facilities is located in the same
zoning district as the principal permitted use, or in a less restrictive zoning
district.
      (5)   Off-street loading and unloading facilities. All uses involving
receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have space on the premises
for the pick up, delivery and service vehicles necessary for normal daily
operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the parking spaces required by
§§
155.090  through
155.103  and subject to the minimum design standards set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for B-1 Business District.
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food, gas and the like);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches and the
like); and
         (c)   Businesses or business districts.
      (2)   Signs relating only to the name and use of buildings or premises
upon which they are placed. Advertising signs and outdoor billboards
advertising products or matters not related to the occupancy and use of the
premises shall not be permitted.
      (3)   (a)   Signs attached to a building or buildings shall not project
more than 18 inches from the wall upon which they are attached. Signs must be
attached to parapet walls or other wall surfaces made a part of the principal
structure.
         (b)   Signs attached to the roof of the building or to any other part
of the building above the roofline shall be permitted. No sign shall project
higher than four feet above the parapet line or the roofline, whichever is
higher.
      (4)   The total gross surface area of all signs on a zoning lot shall not
exceed one-half the lineal frontage of such zoning lot, or 30 square feet for
each business use, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Each side of a building that abuts upon more than one street shall
be considered as a separate frontage.
      (6)   (a)   For integrated shopping centers in single ownership and
management, or under unified control, and containing five or more stores or
shops, one additional sign may be erected not exceeding 100 square feet in
area, advertising only the name and the location of the integrated shopping
center.
         (b)   Such sign shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet
from the front property lines of the premises upon which the sign is located.
The bottom edge of such signs shall be at least eight feet above the level of
the ground and the highest point shall not exceed 20 feet above curb level, or
above the adjoining ground level if such ground level is above the street
level.
      (7)   No sign shall be permitted to be placed so as to face the side of
any adjoining lot located in any residential district.
      (8)   Signs attached to, or hung from, a marquee or awning shall be
completely within the borderline of the outer edge of the marquee or awning,
and shall in no instance be lower than eight feet above the ground or surface
over which the marquee or awning is constructed.
      (9)   Signs, clocks, or other advertising devices erected upon standards
or separate supports shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet from
the front property lines of the premises upon which they are located. No part
of such device shall have a high point greater than 20 feet above the level of
the street upon which the sign faces or above the adjoining ground level if
such ground level is above the street level, nor shall the surface area of any
such device exceed 100 square feet.
      (10)   No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or intermittent type.
Signs that may conflict with public traffic signals shall not be permitted.
      (11)   Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits, and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be installed provided they are located within the property lines
of the subject facility.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002; Ord. 2015-06, passed - -
2015; Ord. 2022-11, passed 5-16-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.041 B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICTS
   (A)   Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-1 Business District; and
      (2)   Retail sales. Processing of products is permitted only if all
products are sold as retail on the premises.
   (B)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135 through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after the required findings have
been made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission:
      (1)   Consumer services. Processing is permitted only if all such
processing is performed as a consumer service for customers served on the
premises; and
      (2)   Private clubs and fraternal organizations.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of three stories, nor shall it exceed
35 feet in height measured from street height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances may
not be erected over and above a maximum height of 45 feet measured from the
adjacent street elevation without the approval of the Village Board.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be constructed or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such buildings.
         (a)   Front yard. No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two intersecting streets lies within this district. However, when lots
within the district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in a residential
district, all of which front upon the same street between two intersecting
streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the
frontage as has been established in the residential districts.
         (b)   Exception. When existing buildings located in this district have
already established a building line at the street line or at a depth less than
required above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the first 50 feet of the B-2 District frontage adjacent to a
residential district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not
less than ten feet.
         (c)   Side yards. No side yard is required, except for a corner lot
whose rear lot line abuts upon a residential district or upon an alley
separating this district from a residential district. There shall then be
provided a side yard equal to one-half the front yard required in the abutting
residential district, but in no case more than ten feet. The setback shall also
apply if the business building fronts the intersecting street, commonly
referred to as the side street.
         (d)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located thereon
(except for the five feet adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley
line) for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of
vehicles under roof.
   (D)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103  and the following special requirements for the B-2 Business District:
      (1)   An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use which has a parking requirement of more than four
parking spaces, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
located in the B-2 District;
      (3)   Special use public parking areas. Any automobile parking area
developed for transient trade, and not accessory to specific principal uses or
groups of uses for which parking is required by this chapter and those set
forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103 , shall be treated as a special use as defined in §§
155.135  through
155.137 , and as allowed in accordance with the provisions of §§
155.135  through
155.137  by the Village Board;
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided on the same lot or
parcel of land as the principal building being served, or on a separate lot or
parcel of land not over 1,000 feet from the entrance of the principal building,
measured from the nearest point of the parking area, provided the separate lot
or parcel of land intended for the parking facilities is located in the same
zoning district as the principal permitted use, or in a less restrictive zoning
district; and
      (5)   Off-street loading and unloading facilities. All uses involving
receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have space on the premises
for the pick up, delivery and service vehicles necessary for normal daily
operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the parking spaces required by
§§
155.090  through
155.103  and subject to the minimum design standards set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for the B-2 Business District.
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food, gas and the like);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches and the
like); and
         (c)   Businesses or business districts.
      (2)   Signs relating only to the name and use of buildings or premises
upon which they are placed. Advertising signs and outdoor billboards
advertising products or matters not related to the occupancy and use of the
premises shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Signs attached to a building or buildings shall not project more
than 18 inches from the wall upon which they are attached. Signs must be
attached to parapet walls or other wall surfaces made a part of the principal
structure. Signs attached to the roof of the building or to any other part of
the building above the roofline shall be permitted. No sign shall project
higher than four feet above the parapet line or the roofline, whichever is
higher.
      (4)   The total gross surface area of all signs on a zoning lot shall not
exceed one-half the lineal frontage of such zoning lot, or 30 square feet for
each business use, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Each side of a building that abuts upon more than one street shall
be considered as a separate frontage.
      (6)   For integrated shopping centers in single ownership and management,
or under unified control, and containing five or more stores or shops, one
additional sign may be erected not exceeding 100 square feet in area,
advertising only the name and the location of the integrated shopping center.
Such sign shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet from the front
property lines of the premises upon which the sign is located. The bottom edge
of such signs shall be at least eight feet above the level of the ground and
the highest point shall not exceed 20 feet above curb level, or above the
adjoining ground level if such ground level is above the street level.
      (7)   No sign shall be permitted to be placed so as to face the side of
any adjoining lot located in any residential district.
      (8)   Signs attached to or hung from a marquee or awning shall be
completely within the borderline of the outer edge of the marquee or awning,
and shall in no instance be lower than eight feet above the ground or surface
over which the marquee or awning is constructed.
      (9)   Signs, clocks or other advertising devices erected upon standards
or separate supports shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet from
the front property lines of the premises upon which they are located. No part
of such device shall have a high point greater than 20 feet above the level of
the street upon which the sign faces, or above the adjoining ground level if
such ground level is above the street level, nor shall the surface area of any
such device exceed 100 square feet.
      (10)   No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or intermittent type.
Signs that may conflict with public traffic signals shall not be permitted.
      (11)   Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be installed provided they are located within the property lines
of the subject facility.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed - -2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
§ 155.055 M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses include industry, non-retail commercial, laboratories
and offices.
   (B)   The following special uses (see §§
155.135 through
155.137) may be allowed by the Village Board after the required findings have
been made that indicate that the special use is necessary and desirable at its
proposed location and appropriately presented at a public hearing before the
Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Minimum yards:
      (1)   Front. A front yard having a depth of no less than 30 feet from the
public right-of-way shall be provided. No structure of any kind, open storage
of materials or equipment, or the parking of vehicles is permitted within the
front yard.
      (2)   Side. Side yards of no less than 15 feet are required on both sides
of the structure or structures. Where the property is adjacent to a residential
district, the side yard shall be no less than 25 feet on the adjacent side.
Parking of private automobiles may be permitted within the side yards, but no
closer that five feet to any residential zoned lot.
      (3)   Rear.
         (a)   A rear yard is not required within the M-1 District except where
the rear lot line is adjacent to a residential district, in which case there
shall be a rear yard of no less than 35 feet measured from the residential lot
line.
         (b)   No parking of vehicles, nor any storage of materials or
equipment, is permitted within the first 15 feet from the residential lot or
lots.
   (D)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.090 through
155.103 and the following special requirements for the M-1 Manufacturing
District:
      (1)   An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use which has a parking requirement of more than four
parking spaces, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided on the same lot or
parcel of land as the principal building being served, or on a separate lot or
parcel of land not over 1,000 feet from the entrance of the principal building,
measured from the nearest point of the parking area, provided the separate lot
or parcel of land intended for the parking facilities is located in the M-
1 District.
      (3)   One parking space for each employee, based on the maximum number of
persons to be employed in any one work period.
      (4)   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
located in a residential district or business district.
         (a)   Off-street loading and unloading facilities.
            1.   All uses involving receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle
shall have space on the premises for the pick up, delivery and service vehicles
necessary for normal daily operation.
            2.   These spaces shall be in addition to the parking spaces
required by §§
155.090  through
155.103  and subject to the minimum design standards set forth in §§
155.090  through
155.103 .
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in accordance with the general
requirements set forth in §§
155.070  through
155.078  and the following special requirements for the M-1 Manufacturing
District.
      (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas (e.g. lodging, food, gas and the like);
         (b)   Public and quasi-public services (e.g. schools, churches and the
like); and
         (c)   Businesses or business districts.
      (2)   The total gross area of all signs on a lot shall not exceed four
square feet of total surface area per lineal foot of building facade.
      (3)   No sign shall project higher than 20 feet above street level.
      (4)   All signs and nameplates permitted by the B-1 Business District are
permissible in the M-1 District.
      (5)   (a)   Billboards, advertising signs and poster panels relating only
to the name and use of buildings or premises upon which they are placed are
permissible as long as the gross area of such sign does not exceed 275 square
feet and does not project more than 20 feet above street elevation.
         (b)   Advertising signs and outdoor billboards advertising products or
matters not related to the occupancy and use of the premises shall not be
permitted.
      (6)   No sign shall be located within 75 feet of any lot located in a
residential district.
      (7)   No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or intermittent type.
Signs which may conflict with public traffic signals shall not be permitted.
      (8)   No advertising sign shall be permitted within 500 feet of any
public park.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
SIGNS
§ 155.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The sign regulations, controls and provisions set forth in this
subchapter are made in accordance with an overall plan and program for the
public safety, area development, preservation of property values and the
general welfare of the village, and are intended to aid in traffic control and
traffic safety; preserve and protect property values; lessen or land and air
space congestion; provide against undue concentrations of signs which distract
and endanger traffic safety and traffic flow; establish reasonable standards
for commercial and other advertising through the use of signs in order to
maintain and encourage business activity and area development; avoid
uncontrolled proliferation of signs; recognize the rights of the public in
roads, streets and highways; preserve the wholesome and attractive character of
the village; and recognize that the general welfare includes a community plan
that provides for a community that shall be beautiful as well as healthful,
spacious as well as clean, and well balanced in its growth and development.
   (B)   The sign regulations distinguish between on-premises and off-premises
business signs. This distinction is based on the finding that other media
(e.g., television, radio, newspapers, outdoor advertising sign structures and
the like) adequately present avenues for business advertising. The restriction
of off-premises business signs will significantly aid in the realization of the
goals and purposes recited above.
   (C)   The sign regulations expressly exclude from regulations non-business
signs except insofar as necessary to prevent imminent danger to the health or
safety of the public.
   (D)   (1)   These sign regulations expressly distinguish between outdoor
advertising sign structures and signs based on the specific finding that such
structures are capable of being utilized for and have been and continue to be
utilized for announcements of both a commercial and non-commercial nature, have
been a traditional and lawful use of land in the village, are a unique
communication medium involving nationally standardized signs, which is made
generally available to the public.
      (2)   At the same time, the regulations recognize that a limitation upon
the size and number of such structures is consistent with and will further the
goals expressed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   General definitions.
      OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE. A standardized outdoor advertising
display, including the permanent framework, structural members, support or
support foundation, scaffolding and illumination, facing or panels, and
message, which is intended and whose customary use is to mount periodically
changing commercial or non-commercial displays and which is made generally
available for display to the public by the owners on a short-term basis. Such
structures shall be limited to three standardized structures:
         (a)   The 30-sheet poster panel or painted bulletin, whose outside
dimensions, including trim, if any, but excluding a base, apron, supports and
other structural member, is approximately 12 feet by 25 feet, containing
approximately 300 square feet of total display area;
         (b)   The 150 square foot face, commonly painted rather than posted;
and
         (c)   The junior panel, whose outside dimensions, including trim, if
any, but excluding the base, apron, supports and other structural members, is
approximately six feet by 12 feet, containing approximately 72 square feet of
total face area.
      SIGN. A sign shall include any writing including a word or numeral;
pictorial representation including illustration; emblem including device,
symbol, or trademark; flag including the flag(s) of any nation(s) with total
area over 40 square feet or banner or pennant; or any figure of similar
character which is used to announce, direct attention to, or advertise and
which is a structure or part thereof, or is attached to, painted on, or in any
manner represented on a building or a structure. The definition shall not
include outdoor advertising sign structures or signs displayed thereon; or
writings, representations or other figures of similar character within a
building or nonpictorial color treatments on the surface of a building which do
not include writing or other direct forms of advertising.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, HEIGHT OF. The height of a
sign or outdoor advertising sign structure shall be the distance from the top
of the highest portion of the sign or structure to the grade at the foundation
of the sign or outdoor advertising sign structure or the average grade of the
lot, whichever distance is greater.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING.
         (a)   A sign or outdoor advertising sign structure lawfully erected,
constructed, installed or maintained prior to the adoption of this chapter,
which does not conform to the standards or requirements for permitted signs and
is not specifically prohibited; or
         (b)   A sign or outdoor advertising sign structure lawfully erected,
constructed, installed or maintained after the adoption of this chapter, which
does not conform to existing standards or requirements for permitted signs
because of annexation, change in zoning districts or amendments to this
chapter.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, SURFACE AREA OF. The surface
area of a sign or surface display area of an outdoor-advertising sign structure
shall be the area of the smallest convex geometric fixture encompassing the
maximum projected area of the volume on a flat plane which completely encloses
the extreme limits of the surface display area of writing, representation,
emblem or other figure of similar character or potential display area of an
outdoor advertising sign structure, together with any material or color forming
an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such sign or outdoor
advertising sign structure from the background against which it is placed. Such
measurement shall exclude the necessary supports or uprights on which the sign
is placed, unless the supports or uprights constitute part of the display
because of the predominant overall concept of the sign.
   (B)   Signs defined according to type of message conveyed.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to or identifies a
business or which directs attention to or identifies a commodity, service or
entertainment to be sold or offered for sale. Any sign displaying the name of a
business enterprise shall be conclusively presumed to be a business sign. Any
sign displayed on a lot occupied by a business enterprise shall be presumed to
be a business sign.
      SIGN, INSTRUCTIONAL OR DIRECTIONAL. A sign conveying instructions or
directions with respect to the lot on which it is located, such as a sign
designating the entrance to or exit from a parking area, a trespassing sign, a
danger sign and signs of similar character.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises on which it is located, including a subdivision sign.
      SIGN, SPECIAL EVENT. A sign advertising or announcing a special
community-wide event or activity conducted by or sponsored by or on behalf of
local government, schools, a charitable organization or a not-for-profit
corporation. A special community-wide event or activity is one which occurs not
more than twice in any 12-month period and which seeks to attract donations,
participants or customers throughout the village or surrounding area.
   (C)   Signs and outdoor advertising sign structures defined according to
location and/or methods of attachment.
      SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. A sign of permanent character, but with movable
letters, words or numerals indicating the names of persons associated with or
events conducted upon or products or services offered upon the premises upon
which such sign is maintained.
      SIGN, CANOPY, OR AWNING. An on-premises business sign other than a
projecting business sign located upon a canopy or awning.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A business sign which is not included in the
definition of “sign, on-premises”.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A business sign which relates solely to a use or
business conducted upon, or to a principal product, service or entertainment
sold, provided or offered upon the lot where the sign is located.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, FREESTANDING. A sign or
outdoor advertising sign structure secured to the ground and not attached to a
building.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, ROOF. A sign or outdoor
advertising sign structure erected upon the roof of any building.
      SIGN OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE, WALL.
         (a)   A sign or outdoor advertising sign structure attached to,
erected against or painted upon the wall of any building with the exposed face
thereof in a plane parallel to the plane of such wall, and which sign is
mounted at a distance measured perpendicular to such wall, no greater than 18
inches.
         (b)   A WALL SIGN shall include a sign suspended from the ceiling of a
marquee, canopy, or vestibule where such sign or freestanding sign or
freestanding outdoor advertising sign structure any part of which is parallel
to and any part of which is within 24 inches of a wall.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign not permanently anchored or secured to either a
building or the ground such as, but not limited to, A frame, inverted T-shaped
signs, and signs affixed to a chassis, which may include wheels for towing,
whether or not such wheels are in place.
      SIGN, PROJECTING YARD. A sign attached to and erected approximately
perpendicular to the wall of a building, including a sign erected at the corner
of a building and projecting into an open space or yard, but not projecting
into the right-of-way of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public property.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign intended for not more than a 30-day period of
display and therefore is not actually displayed for a duration longer than 30
days.
      SIGN, THEATER MARQUEE. A sign other than a projecting sign mounted on the
marquee of any theater.
   (D)   Signs defined according to degree of illumination.
      SIGN, FLASHING. A sign which exhibits artificially changing light or
color effects.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth any artificial light or
reflect such light from an artificial source.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.072 SIGNS ALLOWED IN ALL DISTRICTS WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Signs specified in this section are in addition to the signs permitted in
the respective use districts and shall not require a permit. Such signs are
subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in this section.
   (A)   Non-business sign. Any sign not defined as a business sign and not
specifically prohibited by §
155.074  or regulated by this section.
   (B)   Instructional or directional sign. Instructional or directional signs
which do not exceed a total of 15 square feet in surface area for all such
signs on any premises and which signs do not exceed four feet in height.
   (C)   Real estate sign. One real estate sign may be placed on the lot if the
total surface area of the sign does not exceed 12 square feet.
   (D)   Signs identifying architects, engineers, developers or contractors
when placed on construction sites. Such signs shall not exceed 35 square feet
in area. Such signs shall be removed within 14 days from completion of the
construction.
   (E)   Signs used to identify the street address of a commercial building and
not exceeding five square feet in area.
   (F)   Signs announcing auctions and garage sales not exceeding 32 square
feet in area. Such signs shall be posted not more than 30 days before and shall
be removed seven days following such event, with a total time of display not to
exceed 37 days. Such signs shall be confined to private property and shall not
be attached to or located on public property.
   (G)   Political campaign signs announcing candidates seeking public office
and/or political issues and other pertinent information. Such signs shall be
confined to private property and shall not be attached to or located on public
property. In any residential district, political campaign signs shall not
exceed 16 square feet in area. In other districts, signs shall not exceed 32
square feet. Political campaign signs shall be removed within seven days after
the election to which they pertain.
   (H)   Flags of any country, state, or unit of local government. Such flags
shall not exceed 40 square feet in size.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.073 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   A business shall be allowed to display one temporary or portable sign per
business frontage advertising or announcing a new on-site business for a period
of not to exceed 30 days from the date the business was started. A business
shall also be allowed to display one temporary sign or portable sign
advertising on-premises activities for not more than a total of four weeks per
calendar year with no period of display being less than one week. No permit
shall be required for such signs.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.074 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sign or outdoor advertising sign structure may be installed,
erected, constructed, or placed without a permit from the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, except as specifically provided for by this chapter.
   (B) No permit may be issued for a sign or outdoor advertising sign structure
which is not in compliance with applicable construction codes. Permit
application must be made in the format required by the village and made
available from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.075 SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT.
   (A)   No special event sign shall be erected or maintained on or over any
property owned or controlled by the village or public right-of-way by any
person without first obtaining a permit issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, who shall consider the requirements and restrictions of §
155.074  and the remainder of this section in approving or disapproving the
method of display, location, number and sizes of signs. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall require evidence as to general liability insurance or its
equivalent which names the village as an additional insured in amounts of no
less than combined property damage and personal injury limits of $500,000 prior
to issuance of a permit. Permit application must be made in the format required
by the village and made available from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Number and sizes of signs.
      (1)   Permits shall be granted for no more than ten special event signs
to be displayed on any day. Where approved, applications are received from more
than one organization for such signs to be displayed on the same day, and the
total number exceeds the maximum provided in this section, each organization
shall receive a permit for a pro rata number of such signs.
      (2)   Special event signs shall be no larger than 50 square feet in
surface area.
   (C)   Length of time of display.
      (1)   Special event signs shall be displayed for not more than a
consecutive 30-day period.
      (2)   No more than two days following the special event for which a sign
permit is granted pursuant to this section, such special event signs shall be
removed and the area where such signs have been displayed shall be cleaned and
restored to its condition prior to display of such signs.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999 
§ 155.076 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No sign or outdoor advertising sign structure may be erected, constructed,
established, maintained, enlarged or relocated or changed by any person except
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, nor shall any sign or
outdoor advertising structure be erected on public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-7) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.077 SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURES SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED
IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs and outdoor advertising sign structures are prohibited
in all districts:
   (A)   Banners, flags, pennants, spinners, portable signs and streamers
except as provided for in this chapter;
   (B)   Any flashing sign except the time and temperature signs or any
illuminated sign whose lighting projects into a residential area or public
right-of-way or any sign which has any visible moving part, visible revolving
parts or visible mechanical movement of any description or other apparent
visible movement achieved by electrical, electronic or mechanical means,
including intermittent electrical pulsations or by action of normal wind
currents;
   (C)   Any sign or outdoor advertising sign structure which:
      (1)   Is structurally unsafe;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment;
      (3)   Is not kept in good repair; or
      (4)   Is capable of causing electrical shocks to persons likely to come
in contact with it.
   (D)   Any sign or outdoor advertising sign structure which, by reason of its
size, location, content, coloring or intensity of illumination, constitutes a
traffic hazard or a detriment to traffic safety by obstructing or detracting
from the visibility of any governmentally erected sign or control device;
   (E)   Any sign or outdoor advertising sign structure, not erected by the
village or its agents, which extends over or touches upon any village property
or public right-of-way unless specifically permitted by this chapter;
   (F)   Signs or outdoor advertising sign structures which make use of words
such as “Stop”, “Look”, “Danger” or any other words, phrases, symbols or
characters, in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic;
   (G)   Any sign or outdoor advertising sign structure which obstructs free
ingress to or egress from a required door, window, fire exit or other required
exitway;
   (H)   Any non-conforming sign or outdoor advertising sign structure which
refers to a business no longer in existence or in operation at the location
advertised;
   (I)   Business signs advertising non-conforming uses which do not conform to
the sign regulations of the most restrictive district where the non-conforming
use is permitted;
   (J)   Any sign or outdoor advertising sign structure unlawfully constructed,
installed, erected or maintained; and/or
   (K)   Any roof sign.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-8) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.078 ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION; NOTICE.
   Whenever it shall appear to the Zoning Enforcement Officer that any sign has
been constructed or erected, or is being maintained, in violation of any of the
terms of this chapter, or after a permit for a sign has been revoked or become
void, or that a sign is unsafe or in such condition as to be a hazard to the
safety of the public, the Zoning Enforcement Officer is empowered to issue a
notice in writing to the owner or lessee of the sign, or the owner of the
premises on which the sign is erected or maintained. Such notice shall inform
such person of the violation, and shall direct him or her to make such
alteration, repair or removal as is necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter within a reasonable time limit, which shall not be more than 60 days.
The person receiving such notice shall comply with the terms thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-9) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.090 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are written to help increase safety, lessen congestion and
reduce storage of vehicles in the streets.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.091 REQUIRED ZONING FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   Required parking spaces and loading/unloading spaces shall be located in the
same zoning district as that of the use for which they are accessory, except as
described herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.092 NUMBER OF SPACES BY USE.
   (A)   The following are the minimum required off-street parking spaces for
the particular use.
Use Minimum Space
Use                                     Minimum Space
Automobile service stations             1 per each 2 employees plus 1 per owner
                                        or manager
                                        2 per each 5 employees, plus 1 per 200
Business offices and banks              square feet of floor area for customer
                                        use
Churches                                1 per 5 seats
Community centers                       3 per each 10 persons able to be
                                        accommodated
Convention halls, dance halls, skating  1 parking space for each one hundred
rinks, assembly halls or other places   (100) square feet of floor area used
of assembly                             for assembly
Cultural and civic institutions         1 per 2 employees plus 1 per each 800
                                        square feet of public area
                                        1 per each examining or treatment room,
Dental offices or clinics               plus 1 per doctor, plus 1 per each
                                        other employee
Dwelling, multi-family                  1-1/2 per dwelling unit
Eating and drinking establishments      1 per each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area for public use
Elementary schools                      2 per classroom
Furniture stores, appliance stores,
motor vehicle sales, wholesales stores, 1 parking space for each four hundred
household equipment or furniture repair square feet of floor area
shops, or machinery shops
                                        1 per funeral vehicle maintained on
Funeral parlors                         premises, plus 10 per chapel or parlor,
                                        plus one per family residing on
                                        premises
                                        1 per each employee per shift, plus 1
Governmental offices                    per 200 square feet of floor area for
                                        customers use
Health institutions other than          1 per each 4 beds, plus 1 per each
hospitals or clinics                    staff doctor, plus 1 per each other
                                        employee
High schools                            3 per classroom
Hotels and motels                       1 per dwelling unit or rental unit plus
                                        1 per owner or employee on premises
Junior high schools                     2 per classroom
Libraries                               1 per 800 square feet of floor area
                                        1 per each employee, based on the
Manufacturing plants                    maximum number of employees in any one
                                        work period
                                        1 per each examining room or treatment
Medical offices or clinics              room, plus 1 per doctor, plus 1 per
                                        each other employee
Non-business clubs                      1 per each 3 members
                                        1 per each 4 beds, plus 1 per each
Nursing homes                           staff doctor, plus 1 per each other
                                        employee
                                        1 plus 1 per each 2 persons for living
Private clubs and lodges                accommodations provided, or 1 per each
                                        3 members, whichever is greater
Professional offices                    2 per each 5 employees, plus 1 per 200
                                        square feet of floor area
Retail sales                            2 for 5 employees plus 1 per 200 square
                                        feet devoted to the public
Savings and loan associations           1 per each 5 employees, plus 1 per 200
                                        square feet of floor area
Swimming pool (public)                  3 per each 10 persons able to be
                                        accommodated
Trade schools                           1 per each 2 employees, plus 1 per each
                                        100 square feet of instruction space
                                        2 per each 5 employees, plus 1 per 200
Wholesale offices                       square feet of floor area for customer
                                        use
 
   (B)   Miscellaneous other uses. For uses not specifically listed, accessory
off-street parking spaces shall be provided as required herein for the most
similar use.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.093 CALCULATIONS OF NUMBER OF SPACES.
   (A)   In any determination of total parking requirements, any fraction less
than one-half may be dropped and any fraction of one-half or more shall be
counted as one parking space. When the number of employees is a factor in
determining the number of off-street parking spaces required, “employees” means
the maximum number of employees on duty at the same time.
   (B)   When a building or structure is erected, the required spaces shall be
recorded. If there is an increase or decrease in number of dwelling units,
gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or other unit of
measurement specified in this text for determining the required parking or
loading facilities, and when such increase or decrease results in a requirement
for more or less total parking or loading spaces through application of the
requirements, the parking and loading spaces shall be increased or may be
decreased accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.094 MULTIPLE USERS.
   If groups of buildings contain uses which vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. Where peak parking requirements occur at different
times of the day or week, as determined by the Village Planning Commission,
joint facilities may be shared by two or more uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.095 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   All requirements set forth by the Americans with Disability Act of 1990
(ADA: Pub. L. No. 101-336), as amended, are hereby made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.096 SIZE OF SPACES.
   Each parking space shall be at least 180 square feet in area and shall be a
definitely designated stall adequate for one motor vehicle so that both doors
may be opened. Adequate access to each stall and to the street shall be
provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-7) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.097 PARKING LAYOUT DRAWING AND DESIGN.
   Any application made associated with a building, structure, or use which has
a parking requirement of more than four parking spaces, shall include therewith
a plot plan drawn to scale and fully dimensioned showing any parking or loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with the requirements of these
regulations. Each off-street parking facility of more than four spaces shall be
provided with an appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a forward
manner only. Such off-street parking spaces shall open directly upon an aisle
or driveway of such width and design as to afford adequate ingress and egress.
No driveway shall have a width exceeding 35 feet at the right-of-way, or be
nearer than 50 feet to an intersecting street right-of-way line. All such
driveways shall be constructed with a portland cement concrete approach slab
extending from the edge of the roadway to the right-of-way line. The slab shall
provide for curbing and ramping of sidewalks, where applicable. The design
shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-8) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.098 SURFACING.
   (A)   All open off-street parking areas containing more than four parking
spaces within a residential or business zoning district shall be improved with
an adequate storm water drainage system, and paved with either a crushed stone
base, or equal, not less than six inches thick, and wearing surface of
asphaltic concrete or comparable hard-surfaced, all weather dustless material
not less than two inches thick or portland cement not less than six inches
thick on a compacted subgrade. All open off-street parking areas containing
more than four parking spaces within a manufacturing zoning district shall be
improved with an adequate storm water drainage system.
   (B)   Surfacing of said area to be determined on a case-by-case basis by the
Village Board; however, in no case shall a surface be allowed which is not
considered a dust free surface. All open off-street parking areas containing
not more than four parking spaces shall be surfaced and maintained in such a
manner as to make them dust free.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-9) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.099 USE OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential use and
developed in any residential district in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter shall be used solely for the parking of noncommercial vehicles
owned by occupants of the dwelling structures to which such facilities are
accessory or by guests of the occupants.
   (B)   Accessory off-street parking facilities serving non-residential uses
of property may be permitted in the R-3 District as a special use permit,
subject to the requirements to obtain a special use permit and the following
specific requirements, in addition to all other relevant requirements of this
section.
      (1)   The parking lot shall be accessory to, and for use in connection
with, one or more non-residential establishments located in adjoining
districts, or in connection with one or more existing professional or
institutional office buildings or institutions.
      (2)   The parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles.
      (3)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted
on said parking lot.
      (4)   No sign of any kind other than signs designating entrances, exits
and conditions of use shall be maintained on said parking lot.
      (5)   Each entrance to and exit from said parking lot shall be at least
20 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district,
except where ingress and egress to the parking lot are provided from a public
alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed parking
lot.
      (6)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall
conform to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed by the
Village Board for the protection of properties adjacent to and in the vicinity
of the proposed parking lot. These may include the provisions of screen
plantings.
      (7)   No motor vehicle repair work of any kind is permitted in any
required accessory off-street parking facility. No gasoline or motor oil shall
be sold in conjunction with an accessory off-street parking lot, except where
such lot is accessory to a business having such sale as a principal use.
      (8)   No off-street parking area or space shall be used for the purpose,
incidental or otherwise, of advertising or selling of cars unless the car is
owned by the resident or immediate family member and has a current license
plate. Cars which have a dealer’s plate or do not have a title in the name of
the immediate family member are prohibited from being sold from such property.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-10) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.100 PARKING FACILITY LIGHTING.
   Any parking facility lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it is
directed downward and does not shine directly upon any adjacent residence or
street and does not produce excessive glare.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-11) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.101 REQUIRED SETBACKS.
   No parking space or loading space or portion thereof established on the same
zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front yard. No
parking space or portion thereof established on a zoning lot without a building
shall be located closer to any street line than the established building line
on adjacent properties nor closer than the front yard setback required for the
zoning district in which the parking lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-12) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.102 DISTRIBUTION VEHICLE SPACES.
   All uses involving receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
parking spaces on the premises for the pick up, delivery and service vehicles
necessary for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the
above required parking spaces and shall be subject to §§
155.198  and
155.100.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-13) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.103 LOADING/UNLOADING BERTH.
   An off-street loading berth shall be a hard-surfaced area of land, open or
enclosed, other than a street or a public way, used principally for the
standing, loading or unloading of trucks, tractors or trailers so as to avoid
undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. A required
loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, and of sufficient
length to prevent encroachment on a street or alley pavement, and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-14) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES OF USES
§ 155.115 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Continuation permitted. A non-conforming structure lawfully existing
upon the effective date of this chapter may continue as non-conforming, except
as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Repairs. A non-conforming structure may be repaired or altered
provided no structural alteration change shall be made.
   (C)   Additions, enlargements or moving.
      (1)   A structure non-conforming as to use, height, yard requirements or
lot area shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such structure,
including such addition or enlargement, is made to conform to the use, height,
yard and area requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   No non-conforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other location on the lot on which it is located unless every portion of
such structure is made to conform to all the requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (3)   In the case of mobile home dwellings, located outside a mobile home
park, if a unit is removed, replacement is not permitted.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.116 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuation and change. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   A non-conforming use lawfully existing upon the effective date of
this chapter may be continued; and
      (2)   A non-conforming use may be changed only to a use of the same or
more restricted classification.
   (B)   Expansion prohibited.
      (1)   A non-conforming use in a structure designed for a conforming use
shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming
structure and shall not be changed except to a conforming use; and
      (2)   A non-conforming use on a part of a lot shall not be expanded or
extended into any other portion of such lot.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.117 NON-CONFORMING VARIANCE PERMITTED BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Village Planning Commission, which acts as a Zoning Board of Appeals,
may authorize upon appeals in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter
shall be observed and substantial justice done, provided, however, that no
action shall be taken or decision made except after public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.118 TERMINATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES OR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been discontinued for a period of 12
months, such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and use thereafter
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No building damaged by fire or other causes to the extent that its
restoration will cost more than 60% of its fair cash value shall be repaired or
rebuilt except to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.119 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   (A)   In any residential district a one family detached dwelling and its
accessory structures may be erected on any legal lot or parcel of record which
was recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds before the effective
date of this chapter, subject to the restrictions of §
155.007 (C).
   (B)   Such lot or parcel must have been in separate ownership from abutting
lands on the effective date of this chapter. If abutting lands and the
substandard lot are owned on that date by the same owner, the substandard lot
shall not be sold or used without full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. If in separate ownership, all the district requirements shall be
complied with insofar as practical. The Planning Commission shall interpret the
requirements to be followed in such cases upon request of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.120 CERTIFICATE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A certificate of non-conforming use shall be required for all lawful uses of
land or structures identified as being non-conforming as of the effective date
of this chapter. Non-conforming uses shall maintain valid certificates of non-
conforming use identifying them as such for the Zoning Enforcement Officer’s
records.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
SPECIAL USES; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.135 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses, are those which cannot be adequately controlled by simple pre-
regulation through rigid dimensional and use standards. Special uses are those
which require individual review by the Planning Commission to insure
conformance with the intent of all comprehensive plan elements. Special uses
include two basic categories:
   (A)   Planned unit development (PUD) projects. Complex projects designed to
take maximum advantage of unique site characteristics and potentials along with
original design and use concepts and submitted for review under the planned
unit development procedure.
   (B)   Special uses. Single uses or single aspects of permitted uses
specifically identified in this chapter as requiring individual review under
the special use procedure.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.136 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The planned unit development procedure is intended to provide
a single uniform procedure for total review of a proposed development, both
design and use. The procedure combines the design-review procedure for
subdivisions and the use-review procedure for zoning amendments. It enables the
Planning Commission and the Village Board to review all aspects of a proposed
development simultaneously, permitting greater flexibility and originality in
concept within the intent of comprehensive plan elements. At the same time, it
provides greater final control over development than is possible through the
pre-regulation provided by a zoning district.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Design standards. Because the design standards for use, dimensions,
density and qualitative attributes are subject to evolution through continuous
plan review, they are not included as an integral part of the planned unit
development procedure. This chapter refers to the officially adopted policies,
detailed area plans, and other elements of the evolving comprehensive plan for
the standards to guide the approval of planned unit development projects. A
planned unit development project shall conform with all applicable elements of
an officially adopted comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Required improvements. Planned unit development projects shall be
subject to the regulations governing required improvements found in the
Subdivision Ordinance.
      (3)   Parking, loading, traffic and access. Planned unit development
projects shall be subject to the regulations of this chapter for parking,
loading, traffic and access.
      (4)   Special conditions. The Planning Commission and Village Board may
attach special conditions to approval of final plats to insure conformance with
the intent of all official plan elements.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   General. A planned unit development project may be allowed only by
amendment to the Zoning District Map according to the procedure found in §§
155.200  through
155.205 . For procedural purposes, a planned unit development project shall be
treated as a subdivision and the procedure for subdivision approval, as set
forth in the Subdivision Ordinance (
Chapter 154), shall be followed in its entirety whether the development shall
be in single or divided ownership.
      (2)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat of the planned unit
development project shall be submitted as required by the Subdivision
Ordinance. It is recommended that this submission be preceded by pre-
application conferences to determine whether the developer’s intent agrees with
the intent of comprehensive plan elements. Additional supporting material
beyond that required by the Subdivision Ordinance for the preliminary plat
shall include:
         (a)   Explanation of the character of the planned unit development,
and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations.
         (b)   Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within
the project.
         (c)   Development schedule indicating:
            1.   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each
stage. Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and through
supporting graphic material; and
            2.   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
         (d)   Agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the use,
maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit development and any of
its common open space.
      (3)   Amendment. The amendment procedure established in §§
155.200  through
155.205  shall be initiated after special approval of the preliminary plat by
the Planning Commission. Under this procedure the Zoning District Map may be
amended to designate the location proposed in the preliminary plat as a planned
unit development district superseding the existing zoning district. This
amendment shall conform with all comprehensive plan elements. The planned unit
development district shall be valid only for that preliminary plat and
supporting material upon which the amendment was based. All supporting material
shall remain on file with the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Final plats. If the amendment is approved, final plats shall be
prepared for each stage according to the development schedule. The final plat
and supporting material shall show in detail the design and use of all
buildings and overall land development plans, as well as such other information
the Planning Commission may require for the complete consideration of the
project in addition to information required by the Subdivision Ordinance. The
final plats shall conform to the preliminary plat and supporting material,
except that the Planning Commission and Village Board may approve without
public hearing minor changes which do not change the concept or intent of the
development. Major changes (changes in density, height of buildings, reduction
of proposed open space, changes in the financing, development schedule or final
governing agreements, provisions, covenants or re-subdivision) may be approved
only by submission of a new preliminary plat or applicable supporting material
followed by the amendment procedure.
      (5)   Continuing control. The planned unit development project shall be
developed only according to the approved and recorded final plat(s) and all
supporting material. The recorded final plat and supporting material together
with all recorded amendments shall be binding on the applicants, their
successors and assigns, and shall limit and control the uses of premises and
location of structures in the planned unit development project. Major changes
in the final plat during or after construction shall be accomplished by
submission of a new preliminary plat followed by the amendment procedure. The
Village Board shall consider the planned unit development amendment subject to
revocation if construction falls more than one year behind schedule.
      (6)   Fees and permits. The Village Board may establish a schedule of
reasonable fees to be charged for plat review. Building permits shall be
required for each structure according to Chapter 150. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall base issuance upon conformance with the final plat and supporting
material.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.137 SPECIAL USE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   In applying for a special use, the applicant shall follow all
procedures required for zoning permits (see Section 9-13-2). The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall refer the application to the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall, after careful review of the application, and after
holding a public hearing in accordance with state statutes, make a
recommendation to the Village Board, which may approve, modify or disapprove
the application. In the case of approval or approval with modification, the
Village Board shall issue written authorization to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer to issue a special use permit. This authorization shall remain on
permanent file with the application. The Village Board may from time to time
attach special conditions to ensure conformance with the intent of all
comprehensive plan elements. The Village Board may establish a schedule of
reasonable fees to be charged for special use permits.
      (2)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the zoning district in which it is located, except as
such regulations may be modified by another provision of this chapter, or by
the Village Board.
   (B)   Special uses in all districts. The following are designated as special
uses which may be approved in all zoning districts: public utility and service
uses such as electric substations; gas regulator stations; telephone
transmission structures; radio; TV and microwave relay towers; water
reservoirs; pumping stations; waste water treatment facilities; government
buildings; transportation facilities; planned unit developments and similar
uses.
   (C)   Special uses in specified districts. Other special uses may be
approved in only those zoning districts where they are designated as special
uses under the zoning district regulations.
   (D)   Standards for decisions and recommendations of the Village Board and
Planning Commission include:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, nor
substantially diminish property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage or necessary facilities
have been or will be provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress designed to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
      (6)   No special use permit shall be recommended by the Planning
Commission or approved by the Village Board unless there is a concurring vote
of the majority of all members present which must, at minimum, comprise a
quorum.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
VARIANCES
§ 155.150 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Planning Commission (see §§
155.170 through
155.174) shall provide recommendations to the Village Board based on the
provisions of this chapter and in harmony with its general purpose and intent.
   (B) The Planning Commission shall recommend variances to those provisions
only in specific instances hereinafter set forth where it shall have made a
finding of fact based upon the standards hereinafter prescribed that there are
practical difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the regulations of this chapter. The power to determine and
approve variances is hereby reserved to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.151 INITIATION.
   An application for a variance may be made by any person, firm or
corporation, or by an office, department, board, bureau or commission
requesting or intending to request application for a building permit, or
occupancy certificate. Application for a variance must be made in the format
specified by the village on form made available from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.152 PROCESSING.
   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk shall forward such application to the Planning Commission for
processing in accordance with applicable statutes of the state and the
provisions of this chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be copied on
all applications for a variance.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.153 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend variation from the
provisions of this chapter, unless it shall have made findings based upon
evidence presented to it as follows:
      (1)   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the zoning district in which it is located;
      (2)   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; or
      (3)   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, in determining whether there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships, shall also take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts, favorable to the applicant, have been
established by the evidence that:
      (1)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved will bring particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of the regulations were carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the application for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
district;
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money from the subject property;
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or unduly injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
      (5)   That the proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase the risk of fire or
otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may, upon the premises benefited by a
variance, require conditions and restrictions as may be necessary to reduce or
minimize the effect of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood,
and to implement the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   For each application for variance, a recommendation to the Village
Board shall be provided by the Planning Commission after a public hearing
before said Commission. A public hearing requires that a notice of time and
place of the hearing be published at least once, not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing, in one or more newspapers with general circulation
within the village. In addition, a written notice of the public hearing and its
purpose is to be served at least 15 days before the hearing to the owners of
the properties located adjacent to the location for which the variance is
requested.
      (2)   All decisions and findings upon variances arrived at after the
public hearing shall, in all instances, be referred to the Village Board with a
written report containing findings of fact and recommendations.
      (3)   The concurring vote of four members of the Planning Commission
shall be necessary to recommend any variance to the Village Board.
   (E)   Action by the Village Board. The Village Board, after receiving the
written report and recommendations of the Planning Commission, and without
further public hearing, may adopt by ordinance any proposed variance or may
refer it back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Any
proposed variance which fails to receive the approval of the Planning
Commission, shall not be approved by the Village Board except by the favorable
vote of two-thirds of the Village Board consisting of all Trustees and the
President of the Board.
   (F)   Authorized variance; no public hearing. Without public hearing,
variances from this chapter may be granted by the Village Board only in the
following instances:
      (1)   To permit up to a 20% reduction in front, side or rear yard
required by this chapter;
      (2)   To permit the use of a lot or lots for a use otherwise prohibited
solely because of insufficient area width of the lot or lots but in no event
shall the respective area width of the lot or lots be less than 90% of the
required area and width. The percentage set forth in this subparagraph is not
to be reduced by any other percentage for a minimum lot width and area set
forth in this chapter;
      (3)   To permit the same off street parking facility to qualify as
required facilities for or more uses, provided the substantial use of such
facility by each use does not take place at approximately the same hours of the
same days of the week;
      (4)   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than one parking space or loading space, or 20% of the
applicable regulations, which ever is greater;
      (5)   To extend the period of time a non-conforming use may continue or
remain; and
      (6)   To exceed any of the authorized variations allowed under this
section, when a lot of record or a zoning lot, vacant or legally used on the
effective date of this chapter, is by reason of the exercise of the right of
eminent domain by an authorized governmental body or by reason of a conveyance
under threat of an eminent domain proceeding reduced in size so that the
remainder of said lot does not conform with one or more of the regulations of
the district in which said lot of record or zoning lot or structure is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.154 AVERAGE FRONT YARDS.
   The required front yards may be decreased in any residential or business
districts to the average of the existing front yards of the abutting lots on
each side, but in no case less than 15 feet in any residential district and
five feet in any business district.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.155 NOISE EXEMPTIONS.
   Sirens, whistles and bells which are maintained and utilized solely to serve
a public purpose are exempt from the sound level standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 155.170 ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Planning Commission which will also
serve the Village as a Board of Zoning Appeals until such time it is deemed
necessary to appoint a separate board. The Planning Commission will act as a
Board of Zoning Appeals for the purpose of hearing appeals and applications for
variances and exceptions to the provisions of this chapter in harmony with the
purpose and intent of this chapter. Upon hearing said appeals and applications,
the Planning Commission will make a recommendation to the Village Board on such
application, variance or exception for the purpose of granting or denying such
petition.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
the Village President and confirmed by the Village Board. Each member shall be
appointed for a five-year term. Appointments shall be staggered so that one
member is appointed each year. One of the members so appointed shall be named
as Chairman at the time of his appointment. The Village President shall have
the power to remove any member from said Commission for cause and after a
public hearing. Vacancies upon said commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein
provided for the appointment of such member.
   (C)   A secretary shall be appointed by the Chairman and shall be a member
of the Commission. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall attend all meetings for
the purpose of providing technical assistance when requested by the Commission.
Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as
appointments for a full term.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.171 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall organize and adopt rules of procedure
for its own government in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman and shall be open to the
public.
   (B)   Minutes of the proceedings and a record of all actions shall be kept
by the secretary showing the vote of each member upon each question, the
reasons for the Planning Commission’s determination and its findings of fact.
These records shall be immediately filed in Village Hall and shall be a public
record. The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Planning
Commission present at the public hearing shall be necessary to recommend the
reversal of any order, requirement or decision, or the granting of a variance,
making an interpretation or permitting a temporary, special or substituted use.
At no time shall the Planning Commission hold a public hearing with the intent
of making such a recommendation with less than five members present.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.172 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   The Planning Commission is hereby granted the following jurisdiction and
authority:
   (A)   Errors. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer;
   (B)   Variances. To hear and make recommendations on appeals for variances
as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement will result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit and purpose of this chapter shall be
observed, and the public safety, welfare and justice secured. Use variances
shall not be granted;
   (C)   Interpretations. To hear and decide application for interpretations of
the zoning regulations and the boundaries of the zoning districts;
   (D)   Substitutions. To hear and make recommendations on applications for
substitutions of more restrictive nonconforming uses for existing nonconforming
uses provided no structural alterations are to be made;
   (E)   Unclassified uses. To hear and make recommendations on applications
for unclassified and unspecified uses provided that such uses are similar in
character to the principal uses permitted in the zoning district;
   (F)   Temporary uses. To hear and grant applications for temporary uses in
any zoning district, provided that such uses are of a temporary nature, do not
involve the erection of a substantial structure, and are compatible with the
neighboring uses. Compliance with all other provisions of this chapter shall be
required;
   (G)   Permits. The Planning Commission may recommend the reversal,
affirmation of wholly or partly, modifications of the requirements appealed
from, or the issuance of a permit;
   (H)   Assistance. The Planning Commission may request assistance from other
municipal officers, departments, commissions and boards; and
   (I)   Oaths. The Chairman may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.173 APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer concerning
the literal enforcement of this chapter may be made by any person aggrieved, or
by an officer, department, board or bureau of the village.
   (B)   Such appeals shall be filed with the Village Clerk within 30 days
after the date of written notice of the decision or order of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Applications may be made by the owner or lessee of the structure,
land, or water to be affected at any time and shall be filed with the Village
Clerk. Such appeals and applications shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the appellant or applicant and all abutting and
opposite property owners of record;
      (2)   Plat of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor showing all
of the information required for a building permit; and
      (3)   Additional information required by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.174 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall fix a reasonable time and place for the
hearing, give public notice thereof not less than 15 nor more than 30 days
prior and shall give notice to the parties of interest and the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The appellant, applicant or agent shall give notice to all adjoining
property owners by certified mail at least ten days prior to hearing. At the
hearing, the appellant or applicant may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
ZONING ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.185 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Village President shall appoint a Zoning Enforcement Officer. In
the event a Zoning Enforcement Officer is not appointed, the Village Trustee
designated to chair the Building, Grounds, Parks and Zoning Committee as
appointed by the Village President shall act as the Zoning Enforcement Officer
until one is appointed.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have the
initial responsibility and authority for the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, regulations and codes, and he
or she may enter upon and inspect any premises in the performance of these
duties. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall refer certain matters calling for
original interpretations to the Planning Commission, as directed by various
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.186 FOUNDATION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No building, addition thereto or structural alteration constructed
after the effective date of this chapter and no addition to a previously
existing building shall be occupied, and no land vacant on the effective date
of this chapter shall be used for any purpose, until a foundation inspection
has been conducted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall also be deemed to be a
request for a foundation inspection.
   (C)   (1)   No building, addition thereto or structural alteration can be
constructed after the effective date of this chapter, until a foundation
inspection has been completed and certified by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
to be in full compliance with all the applicable standards of the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (2)   In the event the foundation inspection indicates that the structure
does not conform to the general standards of this chapter and the standards set
forth for the applicable zoning district, a written notice shall be given to
the applicant stating the reason why it is not in conformance, no later than 14
days after the Zoning Enforcement Officer is notified in writing that a
foundation inspection has been requested.
   (D)   Validity. The request for a foundation inspection shall not waive any
provision of this chapter.
   (E)   Permanent file. The Village Clerk shall keep a permanent file of all
applications and all inspections completed.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.187 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or use any structure, land or water
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In case of any violation, the Village Board, Zoning Enforcement
Officer, Planning Commission or any property owner who would be specifically
damaged by such violation may institute appropriate action or proceeding to
enjoin a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
ZONING CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.200 AUTHORITY.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or the evolving
comprehensive plan requires, the Village Board may, by ordinance, change zoning
district boundaries or amend, change or supplement the regulations established
by this chapter or amendments thereto, or approve a planned unit development
project. Said change or amendment shall be subject to review by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.201 INITIATION.
   A change or amendment may be initiated by the Village Board, Planning
Commission or by a petition of one or more of the owners or lessees of property
within the area proposed to be changed.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.202 PETITIONS.
   (A)   Petitions for any change to zoning district boundaries or amendments
to the regulations other than planned unit development projects shall be filed
with the Village Clerk, describe the premises to be rezoned or the regulations
to be amended, list the reasons justifying the petition, specify the proposed
use, and have attached the following:
      (1)   Plot plan drawn to scale of one inch equals 100 feet showing the
area proposed to be rezoned, its location, its dimensions, the location and
classification of adjacent zoning districts and the location and existing use
of all properties within 200 feet of the area proposed to be rezoned;
      (2)   Owner’s names and addresses of all properties lying within 200 feet
of the area proposed to be rezoned; and
      (3)   Additional information required by the Planning Commission or
municipal governing body.
   (B)   Petitions for planned unit development projects shall be filed as
preliminary plats as required by the planned unit development procedure.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.203 PUBLIC HEARINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall review all proposed changes and amendments and
shall, after holding a public hearing, make recommendation to the Village Board
that such be approved, specially approved or denied.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.204 PASSAGE.
   After careful consideration of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the
Village Board shall vote on the proposed change or amendment. The Planning
Commission’s recommendations shall be implemented unless overruled by three-
fourths of the full Village Board membership, except in the event of a protest.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.205 PROTEST.
   In the event of a protest against such zoning district change or amendment
to the regulations of this chapter filed with the Village Clerk and duly signed
and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of the land included in such
proposed change, or by the owners of 20% or more of the land immediately
adjacent extending 100 feet therefrom or by the owners of 20% or more of the
land directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the street frontage of
such opposite land, such changes or amendments shall not become effective
except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of the full Village Board
membership.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 155.220 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any uses established in any zoning district after the effective
date of this chapter shall be so operated as to comply with the performance
standards governing:
         (a)   Noise;
         (b)   Vibration;
         (c)   Smoke and particulate matter;
         (d)   Toxic and noxious matter;
         (e)   Odorous matter;
         (f)   Fire and explosive hazards; and
         (g)   Glare and heat, as set forth hereinafter for the district in
which such use shall be located.
      (2)   (a)   No use already established on the effective date of this
chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further
conflict with, the applicable performance standards established hereinafter for
the district in which such use is located. An application for a building permit
in the M-1 District shall require an industrial performance review by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   When deemed necessary by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the
Building Permit Application shall be accompanied by a certification from an
engineer or scientific testing laboratory approved by the Village Board,
indicating that the use of the land and all processing either does or will
comply with the applicable performance standards. Complaints by an individual
or individuals of noncompliance with these standards shall be investigated by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Upon completion of the investigation, if a
scientific test and investigation is deemed desirable, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall so inform the Planning Commission who shall evaluate the
recommendation and subsequently recommend to the Village Board that scientific
test be carried out. This test shall be carried out by qualified professionals.
         (c)   If such test reveals a violation of the performance standard,
the Village Board shall take the prudent actions necessary to assure compliance
by any violator with the performance standards and other pertinent provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-1) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
§ 155.221 NOISE.
   (A)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated
octave band filter manufactured by the American Standards Associates.
Measurement shall be made using the flat network of the sound level meter.
Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the performance standards hereinafter
prescribed, provided that such noises shall be capable of being so measured,
for the purpose of this chapter, shall be those noises which cause rapid
fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more
than plus or minus two decibels. Noise incapable of being so measured, such as
those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall be controlled so as not to
become a nuisance to adjacent issues.
   (B)   At no point on the boundary of the property shall the sound pressure
level of any operation than background noises not directly under the control of
the property owner exceed the limits set forth by the regulations promulgated
by the Environmental Protection Act (IL Rev. Stat. 1981, Ch. 111 Pars. 1025 and
1027) and all amendments made hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-2) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.222 VIBRATIONS.
   (A)   Vibrations within a district shall be controlled so as not to become a
nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (B)   (1)   No operation or activity (except those not under the direct
control of the property owner) cause at any time ground transmitted vibrations
in excess of the limits set forth below.
      (2)   Vibrations shall be measured at any point along a property boundary
line of the owner with a component measuring instrument approved by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, and shall be expressed as displacement in inches.
 
Frequency (cycles per second) Maximum Permitted Displacement Along Residence
                              Boundaries (Inches)
0 to 10                       0.0008
10 to 20                      0.0005
20 to 30                      0.0002
30 to 40                      0.0002
40 and over                   0.0001
 
(Prior Code, § 9-15-3) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.223 SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER.
   (A)   (1)   Any use already established on the effective date of this
chapter shall be permitted to be altered, enlarged, expanded or modified,
provided that new sources of smoke and/or particulate matter conform to the
performance standards established hereinafter for the district in which such
use is located.
      (2)   The total emission weight of the particulate matter from all
sources within the boundaries of the lot shall not exceed the net amount
permitted in the district in which the use is located after such alteration,
enlargement, expansion or modification.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann
Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, shall be
employed.
      (2)   The emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density equal to
No. 2 on the Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise
provided hereinafter.
      (3)   In all districts, all uses shall comply with the current
regulations promulgated by authority of the Environmental Protection Act and
its subsequent amendments or updates set forth by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-4) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.224 TOXIC AND NOXIOUS MATTER.
   No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of toxic or
noxious matter across lot lines in such concentration as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.225 ODOROUS MATTER.
   No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of odorous
matter in such a manner as to not conform with the applicable regulations
promulgated by authority of the Environmental Protection Act and its subsequent
amendments or updates.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-6) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.226 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS.
   (A)   The manufacture, utilization or storage of pyrophoric and explosive
dusts shall be in accordance with the safety codes of the National Fire
Protection Association. Such dusts include, but are not limited to, aluminum,
bronze, magnesium powder, powered coal, powered plastics, flour and feed,
spices, starches, sugar, cocoa, sulfur, grain (storage) and wood flour.
   (B)   (1)   In the M-1 District, the following additional regulations shall
apply:
         (a)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials
ranging from incombustible to intense burning are permitted, subject to
applicable rules and regulations of the state; and
         (b)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials,
which produce flammable of explosive vapors or bases, shall be permitted in
accordance with the regulations of the state.
      (2)   Said materials shall be stored, utilized or manufactured within
completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls, or protected
throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system or said materials may be
stored outdoors in conformance with the regulations of the state, and such
storage shall have 50 feet clearance from all property lines.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-7) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.227 GLARE AND HEAT.
   (A)   Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building in such a manner so as not to create a
public nuisance or hazard along a lot line.
   (B)   Exposed sources of light shall be shielded so as not to create a
nuisance across lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-8) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 155.240 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. An active solar energy system that
is an integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or
structural component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but
are not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are
contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and awnings.
   GROUND MOUNT. A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests on
or is attached to the ground.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. An active solar energy system that converts solar
energy directly into electricity.
   ROOF MOUNT. A solar energy system that is mounted on a rack that is fastened
onto a building roof.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. An assembly, structure and the associated equipment and
housing, designed for gathering, concentrating or absorbing direct and indirect
solar energy for which the primary purpose is to convert or transform solar
radiant energy into thermal, mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device, array of devices or structural design
feature, the purpose of which is to provide for:
      (1)   Generation of electricity;
      (2)   Collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space
heating or cooling;
      (3)   Daylight for interior lighting; and/or
      (4)   Water heating.
   SOLAR FARM. A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity,
whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices (CST) or
other conversion technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale sales of
generated electricity. A SOLAR FARM is the principal land use for the parcel on
which it is located.
   SOLAR GARDEN. A commercial solar-electric (photovoltaic) array, of no more
than five acres in size, that provides retail electric power (or a financial
proxy for retail power) to multiple households or businesses residing in or
located off-site from the location of the solar energy system.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system (also referred to as solar thermal) that
includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats or preheats water
for building heating systems or other hot water needs, including residential
domestic hot water and hot water for commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   SOLAR RESOURCE. A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building or object for a minimum of
four hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Standard Time on all
days of the year.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.241 SOLAR PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit application. It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, relocate
or demolish any solar energy system without first applying for and obtaining a
building permit as set forth in §§
155.107  through
155.173 , and a solar permit as more specifically provided for herein.
   (B)   Application plans. Every solar permit for the construction, alteration
or relocation of a solar energy system shall be accompanied with a written plan
and drawing for the proposed solar energy system.
      (1)   The written plan shall:
         (a)   Identify the owner and operator of the proposed solar energy
system;
         (b)   Indicate the zoning classification of the property and whether
the solar energy system will be an accessory or principal use;
         (c)   Include to-scale horizontal and vertical drawings showing the
location of the system on the building or on the property, including all set-
back and property lines, and the elevation of the solar energy system; and
         (d)   For roof-mounted solar energy systems other than a flat roof,
the elevation must show the highest finished slope of the solar collector and
the slope of the finished roof surface on which it is mounted.
      (2)   No solar permit shall be issued except after approval of the plans
and payment of the fee as provided for herein.
   (C)   Decommissioning plan. If the solar energy system will be designated as
a principal use upon the property, a decommissioning plan shall be submitted
with the application for a solar permit. The plan shall ensure that the owner
or operator properly removes the equipment and/or facilities upon the
abandonment or end of the project’s term or after the solar energy system’s
useful life. A decommissioning plan shall include the following:
      (1)   The anticipated means and costs of removing the solar energy
system;
      (2)   Provisions for the removal of all structures and foundations,
including the removal of all electrical transmission components and the
restoration of soil and vegetation;
      (3)   The identity of the party or parties responsible for
decommissioning; and
      (4)   (a)   A plan ensuring financial resources will be available to
fully decommission the site. This may include a requirement for the posting of
a bond, letter of credit, or establishment of an escrow account to ensure
proper decommissioning.
         (b)   The posting of a bond may be required prior to the issuance of a
solar permit.
   (D)   Application fees. Every application for a solar permit as provided for
herein shall be charged an application processing fee based on the total
wattage anticipated to be generated by the solar energy system:
Total Wattage (kilowatts (kW)) Charge
Total Wattage (kilowatts (kW)) Charge
0 to 10                        $150
11 to 50                       $300
51 to 100                      $600
101 to 500                     $1,200
501 to 1,000                   $2,750
1,000 to 2,000                 $6,000
Over 2,000                     $6,000, plus $200 for each additional 100 kW
 
   (E)   Fee surcharge. Any person who constructs, alters, relocates or
demolishes a solar energy system prior to the application, payment and issuance
of a solar permit as required herein shall be charged two times the application
fee.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.242 ACCESSORY USE.
   (A)   Permitted accessory use. The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as an accessory use in all zoning districts within the village limits
when used exclusively for non-commercial purposes:
      (1)   A single ground-mount solar energy system;
      (2)   Roof-mount solar energy systems; and
      (3)   Building integrated solar energy systems.
   (B)   Requirements. Solar energy systems under this section shall be subject
to the following requirements.
      (1)   Height. The following height requirements shall be met:
         (a)   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height in their respective zoning district; and
         (b)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed ten feet in
height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (2)   Set-back. All minimum set-back requirements for the zoning district
in which the solar energy system is in use must be satisfied, in addition to:
         (a)   Roof- or building-integrated solar energy systems shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted or built;
         (b)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend into the
side yard or rear setback when oriented at minimum design tilt; and
         (c)   No ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be allowed in the
front yard of any property zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into
the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from public
right-of-ways other than alleys. A solar energy system may be screened from
routine view through use of fencing, shrubbery, trees or such other landscaping
or building as may be necessary to satisfy the visibility requirements herein.
The color of the solar collector is not required to be consistent with other
roofing materials. The visibility requirements as set forth herein are subject
to the following.
         (a)   Building-integrated solar energy systems shall be allowed
regardless of whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way,
provided that the building component in which the system is integrated meets
all required set-back, land use or performance standards for the zoning
district in which the building is located.
         (b)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of
whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided that the
highest finished pitch is no steeper than the roof pitch on which the system is
mounted, and shall be no higher than 12 inches above the roof.
         (c)   Solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance solar
production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or nearby
properties.
      (4)   Glare.
         (a)   Solar energy systems shall be designed, constructed and sited to
minimize or prevent glare and/or reflections on adjacent properties and
roadways, and shall not materially and negatively impact the use thereon.
         (b)   A solar energy system shall not interfere with traffic,
including air traffic, or otherwise create a safety hazard. In the event that
reasonable glare and/or reflection concerns are raised within the village, the
owner will take actions to address those concerns, including, but not limited
to, additional screening or otherwise modifying the solar energy system.
      (5)   Miscellaneous.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems, excluding building-integrated
systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting purposes to the
roof upon which the panels are mounted.
         (b)   Ground-mounted systems shall not exceed half the building
footprint of the principal structure, and shall be exempt from impervious
surface calculations if the soil under the collector is not compacted and
maintained in vegetation. Foundations, gravel or compacted soils are considered
impervious.
         (c)   Solar energy systems on buildings within designated historic
districts or on locally designated historic buildings (exclusive of State or
Federal historic designation) must be consistent with the standards for solar
energy systems on historically designated buildings published by the United
States Department of Interior.
         (d)   Electric solar energy systems must be certified by a third-party
for safety, performance and quality through a UL listing or approved equivalent
and solar hot water systems must have an SRCC rating.
         (e)   Solar energy systems shall comply with all applicable local and
state building, electric and plumbing codes.
   (C)   Conditional accessory use. Solar energy systems permitted under
division (A) above that demonstrate that the requirements in division (B) above
cannot be met without materially diminishing the minimum reasonable performance
of the solar energy system, as that term is defined herein, may request a
special use permit from the village.
      (1)   Minimum reasonable performance. The standards for the minimum
reasonable performance of certain solar energy systems are as follows:
         (a)   Fixed-mount active solar energy systems. They should be mounted
to face within 45 degrees of south 185 degrees azimuth;
         (b)   Solar electric (photovoltaic) systems. The solar collectors
should have a pitch between 20 and 65 degrees;
         (c)   Solar hot water systems. The solar collectors need to be mounted
at a pitch between 40 and 60 degrees; and
         (d)   Location of all solar energy systems. The solar energy system
should be located where the lot or building has a solar resource, as defined
herein.
      (2)   Special use permit. A special use permit shall be granted, after
review by the commission on buildings, regardless of whether the requirements
in division (B) above are not met, if the applicant demonstrates that the
minimum reasonable performance of the solar energy system is materially
diminished and that the following conditions are present:
         (a)   Safety conditions. The solar energy system must meet all
applicable local, state, and federal health and safety standards.
         (b)   Aesthetic conditions. The solar energy system must be designed
to blend into the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view
from public right-of-ways other than alleys to the maximum extent possible,
while still allowing the system to be mounted for efficient performance.
         (c)   Non-tracking ground-mounted systems. Pole or ground-mounted
solar energy systems must be set back from the property line by a minimum of
one foot.
   (D)   Restrictions on solar energy systems limited. No homeowners’
agreement, covenant, common interest community or other contract between
multiple property owners within the village shall prohibit or restrict
homeowners from installing solar energy systems. No energy policy statement
enacted by a common interest community shall be more restrictive than the
village’s solar energy standards.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.243 PRINCIPAL USE.
   (A)   Permitted principal use. The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as a principal use within the village: Rooftop solar gardens.
   (B)   Conditional principal use. The following solar energy systems shall be
allowed as a conditional principal use within the village and shall require a
special use permit:
      (1)   Ground-mounted solar gardens; and
      (2)   Solar farms.
   (C)   Requirements. Solar energy systems under this section shall be subject
to the following, in addition to all other height, set-back, visibility and
other requirements as specified in §
155.242 (B).
      (1)   Rooftop solar gardens. Rooftop solar gardens shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located; and
         (b)   Rooftop solar gardens are permitted on all properties within the
village zoned for business or manufacturing.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar gardens. Ground-mounted solar gardens shall
meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Ground-mounted solar gardens are permitted only after
application for and approval of a special use permit, subject to such standards
and conditions as provided for in §
155.242 (C)(2);
         (b)   Must be less than five acres in total size;
         (c)   Ground-mounted gardens covering more than five acres shall be
considered solar farms;
         (d)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located; and
         (f)   Ground-mounted solar gardens are permitted on all properties
within the village zoned for business or manufacturing
      (3)   Solar farms. Solar farms shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Solar farms are permitted only on properties within the village
zoned for manufacturing;
         (b)   Solar farms are permitted only after application for and
approval of a special use permit, subject to the same standards and conditions
as provided for in §
155.242 (C)(2);
         (c)   A solar farm shall comply in all respects with the village’s
stormwater management ordinances;
         (d)   Top soils shall not be removed during development, unless for
remediation. Soils shall be planted and maintained with perennial vegetation to
prevent erosion and manage run-off;
         (e)   A qualified engineer shall certify that the foundation and
design of the solar mounting devices are within accepted professional standards
with respect to local soil and climate conditions;
         (f)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located;
         (g)   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
panels and to nearby electric substations or interconnections with buildings
shall be buried underground. This requirement may be excused when it is
reasonably demonstrated to the commission on buildings that there are
circumstances preventing the burying of said lines due to the natural
landscape;
         (h)   A sign shall be required identifying the owner and/or operator
and provide a 24-hour emergency contact phone number. The sign shall comply in
all respects with the village’s sign ordinances; and
         (i)   Prior to the construction of any solar farm within the village
that will necessitate the use of village roads, the owner or operator of such
solar farm shall enter into a road use agreement or some similar contract with
the village. The contract at a minimum shall include provisions relating to the
construction, maintenance and decommissioning of the solar farm, with terms
agreeable to the village, for the use and repair of village roads during such
periods. The special use permit provided for herein may be conditioned upon the
execution of a road use agreement with the village.
   (D)   Additional set-back, screening and lighting requirements. Solar
gardens and/or solar farms, as applicable, in addition to the requirements
specified in §
155.242 (B), shall be subject to the following additional standards.
      (1)   Solar farm set-back. Solar farm above-ground improvements must be
set back a minimum of 25 feet from all property lines. However, for any such
improvements including, but not limited to, fences or solar panels that abut a
state highway, the minimum set back distance shall be 150 feet from the
centerline of the highway. In addition, solar farm above-ground improvements
must be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the centerline of any non-state
right-of-way.
      (2)   Additional visual screening. Ground-mounted mechanical equipment
that is visible outside the perimeter of the property on which a solar farm is
located must be screened from view of roads and dwelling units located within
500 feet of the solar farm. The screening shall consist of:
         (a)   A landscaped area at least ten feet in width with at least one
shrub per five linear feet, plus at least one evergreen tree per 25 linear feet
of perimeter area. At the time of planting, shrubs shall be at least three feet
in height and evergreen trees shall be at least five feet in height (or shall
comply with the following in division (D)(2)(b) below);
         (b)   A landscaped area at least ten feet in width with a solid wall
or privacy fence with a minimum height of eight feet. At least one evergreen
tree is required per 30 feet of the fence or wall; and
         (c)   In addition, for residences that are adjacent to the solar farm,
a landscaped berm of at least five feet in height shall be installed. Such berm
shall be landscaped with one evergreen tree per 25 linear feet along the
adjacent property line.
      (3)   Lighting.
         (a)   A solar garden or solar farm shall not be artificially
illuminated, unless required by an applicable government agency or authority or
approved by the village as part of a special use permit.
         (b)   If lighting is required or approved by the village, such
lighting shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes
and shall be reasonably shielded from abutting properties.
         (c)   Where feasible, lighting of the solar panels shall be directed
downward and shall incorporate full cut-off fixtures to reduce light pollution.
   (E)   Monitoring and maintenance.
      (1)   The owner and/or operator of a solar garden or solar farm is
responsible for keeping the solar garden or solar farm in a safe, sound and
well-maintained condition, including, if applicable, painting, grounds keeping,
structural repairs, internal access drives and appropriate security measures.
      (2)   The owner of the solar garden or solar farm will certify to the
village at the start of commercial operations that it is in compliance with
this subchapter and that its operation will comply with all federal, state and
local regulations in effect at that time.
   (F)   Abandonment and decommissioning. A solar garden or solar farm that
does not produce energy for a continuous period of 12 consecutive months or
more and where the owner and/or operator is not pursuing the repair of such
solar garden or solar farm will be presumed to be abandoned.
      (1)   Any solar garden or solar farm that is considered abandoned shall
be decommissioned within 180 days.
      (2)   Decommissioning, at a minimum, shall consist of:
         (a)   Physical removal of all solar photovoltaic installations,
structures, equipment, security barriers, screening and transmission lines from
the site to a depth below grade of three feet;
         (b)   Recycling or disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in
accordance with local, state and federal regulations;
         (c)   Stabilization or re-vegetation of the site, as necessary, to
minimize erosion;
         (d)   Clean-up of any and all environmental contamination
contributable to or arising out of the owner and/or operator’s use of the solar
garden or solar farm, necessary to return the property on which the solar
garden or solar farm was constructed to the condition it was in prior to such
use; and
         (e)   All other requirements provided for in the solar garden or solar
farm’s decommissioning plan.
      (3)   If decommissioning is not completed within the time period required
under this section, the village may, but is not required to, cause the solar
garden or solar farm to be deconstructed. Upon the occurrence of such event,
the owner and/or operator of the solar garden or solar farm shall reimburse the
village for all costs it may have incurred in connection with the
decommissioning of the site.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-6-2018)
COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 155.255 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   The Village Board finds that in order to ensure public safety; provide
efficient delivery of services by the village and others wishing to utilize
wireless communication technologies; ensure the health, safety and welfare of
the population; provide for the regulation and administration and orderly
location of antenna arrays and towers; and secure the rights of the village to
regulate its public property and charge a reasonable fee for use of public
property, it is necessary for the village to establish these uniform rules,
regulations and policies.
   (B)   Neither “small wireless facilities” subject to the State Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act nor residential television antennas shall be
subject to regulation under this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.256 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. A device, dish or array used to transmit or receive
telecommunication signals.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A tower, pole or similar structure which supports a
telecommunications antenna operated for commercial purposes above ground in a
fixed location, whether free standing, guyed, or on a building.
   HEIGHT. The distance from ground level at the base of the tower or the base
of any supporting structure to the top of the structure including any antenna
(s) or other appurtenances.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The electronic, telephonic or other high-tech
transmission, reception or exchange of data or information between or among
points specified by the user of information of the user’s choosing, without
change in the form or content of the information as sent or received, by a
means which requires the approval or licensing by the Federal Communications
Commission.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.257 LOCAL REGULATION.
   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits the village from establishing
policies that discriminate against one or a group of providers in favor of
another or another group of providers or potential providers. The following
objectives shall be applied consistently to all telecommunications providers
that request a location for their communication towers and antennas:
   (A)   To minimize the overall number of towers located in the village,
providers may be required to participate in collocation agreements;
   (B)   To ensure that new towers will blend into their environment, providers
will propose designs consistent with site characteristics;
   (C)   To maximize safety new towers will be located away from population and
employment centers and siting of new towers will include fall zone setbacks as
specified herein; and
   (D)   To ensure the interests of the residents of the village are protected
the Village Board will have the right to deny any application.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.258 FACILITIES LOCATED ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Lease required. No tower or antenna owner shall use any public
property without first obtaining a lease from the village. The Village Board
may terminate any lease if it is determined that any one of the following
conditions exists:
      (1)   A potential user of a higher priority cannot find another adequate
location and the potential use would be incompatible with the existing tower
use;
      (2)   An antenna owner’s frequency broadcast unreasonably interferes with
other uses of higher priority, regardless of whether or not this interference
was adequately predicted in the technical analysis;
      (3)   A tower or antenna owner violates any of the standards in this
subchapter or the conditions or terms of the lease agreement with the village;
and
      (4)   Before taking any such termination action, the village will provide
notice of the intended termination and the reasons for it to the owner and
provide an opportunity for a hearing before Village Board regarding the
proposed action. This procedure need not be followed in emergency situations.
   (B)   Fees and reimbursable costs required. No lease for the use of public
property shall be granted without requiring the lessee thereof to pay a
reasonable and competitively neutral fee for the use of that public property.
   (C)   Insurance required. The tower owner will produce proof of adequate
liability insurance for potential damage that could reasonably be caused to
persons or property, including village property and facilities, by the location
of the towers, antennas or facilities on village property.
   (D)   Limit on term. No lease for the use of public property under this
chapter shall be granted for a term of more than ten years.
   (E)   Security for removal required. Upon reasonable notice, the towers,
antennas or facilities may be required to be removed at the tower owner’s
expense. The tower owner shall submit an irrevocable letter of credit,
performance bond or other security acceptable to the village to cover the
anticipated costs of removing any tower, antenna or related facilities.
   (F)   Priorities. Priority of the use of village-owned land will be given to
the following entities in descending order of priority:
      (1)   All functions of the village;
      (2)   Public safety agencies that are not part of the village, including
law enforcement, fire and ambulance services and private entities with a public
safety agreement with the village;
      (3)   Other governmental agencies for uses which are not related to
public safety; and
      (4)   Entities providing licensed commercial communication services,
including cellular, personal communication services, specialized mobilized
radio, enhanced specialized mobilized radio, paging and similar services that
are marketed to the general public for business and/or personal use.
   (G)   Placement of facilities. The placement and maintenance of
communication towers, antennas and facilities on village-owned sites, such as
water towers and parks, will be considered when the following requirements are
met.
      (1)   Water tower sites. The village’s water tower represents a large
public investment in water pressure stabilization and peak capacity reserves,
and its protection is of prime importance. For that reason, the placement of
communication towers or antennas on water towers sites will be allowed only
with the approval of the village and only when the following requirements are
found by the village to be met:
         (a)   The owner must have approval from the village each time access
to any equipment mounted on a water tower is desired. This will minimize the
risk of contamination to the water supply;
         (b)   There is sufficient room on the structure and/or the grounds to
accommodate the owner’s facilities;
         (c)   The presence of the facility will not increase the water tower
maintenance costs to the village or unreasonably interfere with or prevent the
use or maintenance of the water tower; and
         (d)   The presence of the facility will not be harmful to the health
or safety of workers maintaining the water tower.
      (2)   Parks. The presence of communications towers, antennas or similar
facilities represents a potential conflict with the purpose of village-owned
parks and recreational facilities. Communications towers and antennas will be
considered only in park facilities that are remote from places where people
regularly live, work or gather and large enough to accommodate the use without
significant impact to adjacent property owners, after recommendation of the
Parks and Recreation Commission and approval of the Council.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.259 SETBACK AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A tower must be set back:
      (1)   From all residential lot lines a distance equal to or greater than
the tower height; and
      (2)   From lot lines of all other districts a distance equal to or
greater than the height of the tower; however, if the tower manufacturer
certifies the that the tower is designed to collapse within a smaller area, the
setbacks may be reduced consistent with said certification, but shall in no
case be less than 50% of the height of the tower. Use of the tower
manufacturer’s certification to reduce the set back as described herein is
subject to the review and approval of the Village Board.
   (B)   Any communications facilities located on the roof of an antenna
support structure must be set back at least one foot from the edge of the roof
of the structure. This setback requirement shall not apply to communications
facilities located above the roof of the structure, if the facilities are:
      (1)   Appropriately screened from view through the use of panels, walls,
fences or other screening techniques approved by the village; or
      (2)   Camouflaged antennas that are mounted to the exterior of the
antenna support structures below the roof, but do not protrude more than 24
inches from the side of such an antenna support structure.
   (C)   The following height conditions apply:
      (1)   Commercial and public use districts. Freestanding or guyed tower
with a height not exceeding 200 feet; and
      (2)   Industrial districts. Freestanding or guyed tower with height not
exceeding 360 feet.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.260 NOISE AND EMISSION STANDARDS.
   No equipment shall be operated at towers or telecommunications facilities so
as to produce noise in excess of applicable standards under WAC173-60, except
during emergencies or periodic routine maintenance which requires the use of a
backup generator where the noise standards may be exceeded temporarily.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.261 ABANDONMENT.
   In the event the use of any communications tower has been discontinued for a
period of 180 consecutive days, the tower shall be deemed to be abandoned.
Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the Village Board,
who shall have the right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the
communications tower owner regarding the issue of tower usage. At 181 days
after the date of abandonment, without reactivating or upon completion of
dismantling or removal, any approval for the tower shall automatically expire.
Upon abandonment, the owner of the tower shall have an additional 90 days
within which to reactivate the use of the tower, transfer the tower to another
owner who makes actual use of the tower within the 90 days, or dismantle and
remove the tower. If not done within this 90-day period, the village may
dismantle and remove the tower with all costs assessed to the tower owner.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 155.262 APPROVAL PROCESS FOR ALL TOWERS.
   The following procedures shall apply to all communication tower or antenna
facilities on public or private property.
   (A)   Submission materials and basis for approval or denial. The following
information shall be submitted to the Village Board for review of the
application in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, except that
items (A)(3), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(9) and (A)(15) are not required if
the antenna is proposed to be located on a tower owned by the village or a
tower constructed at the village’s direction and intended to be used for
collocation of antennas:
      (1)   The fee as set for Village Board for applications;
      (2)   One copy of specifications for proposed structures and antennas,
including a description of the design characteristics and material to be used;
      (3)   A site plan drawn to scale showing existing features including
property lines; existing structures and other improvements; proposed features
including tower location, tower height, guy wires and anchors, setbacks,
photographs or elevation drawings depicting design of the proposed structures,
parking, fences and landscape plan. The site plan is not required if the
antenna is to be mounted on an existing structure;
      (4)   A current map or update for an existing map on file showing the
locations of the owner’s existing antennas or facilities and proposed towers;
      (5)   A report from a structural engineer showing the tower antenna
capacity by type and number and a certification that the tower is designed to
withstand winds in accordance with ANS/EIA/TIA-222 (latest revision) standards;
      (6)   Identification of the owners of all antennas and equipment to be
located on the site;
      (7)   Written authorization from the site owner for the application;
      (8)   Evidence that a valid FCC license for the proposed activity has
been applied for or issued;
      (9)   A line of site analysis that shows the potential visual impacts of
a tower, as directed by the Village Board or its designee. The analysis may be
required for up to six different vantage points to fully understand the impact
on village residents;
      (10)   A written agreement to remove the tower, antenna and/or facilities
within 180 days after cessation of use, including posting of an irrevocable
letter of credit, performance bond or other security acceptable to the village
to cover the anticipated costs of removing the same;
      (11)   A map showing all structures within 200 feet of the proposed
tower;
      (12)   Certificate from a registered engineer indicating that the
proposed facility will contain only equipment meeting FCC rules;
      (13)   Agreement in writing from the owner to provide indemnification of
the municipality and proof of liability insurance or financial ability to
respond to claims in an amount set by the Village Board;
      (14)   Additional information, as requested by the village, to determine
that all applicable zoning regulations are met; and
      (15)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners of other
towers or usable tower support structures within a half mile radius of the
proposed new tower site, including village-owned property; and written
documentation that the owner made diligent but unsuccessful efforts for a
minimum of 40 days prior to the submission of the application to install or
collocate the proposed telecommunications facilities on towers or usable
antenna support structures owned by the village and other owners located within
a half-mile radius of the proposed tower site; or written technical evidence
from a structural engineer that:
         (a)   The proposed tower or facilities cannot be installed or
collocated on another owner’s tower or support structure within one-half mile
radius of the proposed tower; and
         (b)   Must be located at the proposed site in order to meet the
coverage requirements of the applicant’s wireless communications system.
   (B)   Review and action. The following process shall be observed in the
review and final village action on any application:
      (1)   Upon receipt of the application, the Village Clerk shall forward
copies of the material to the Planning Commission, which shall consider the
application at its next scheduled meeting;
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the application for
conformance to Village Code provisions and issue a draft report for the owner’s
review and response. Said report may contain additional submission
requirements, recommendation for approval with or without special conditions,
or recommendation for denial with rationale, and shall be prepared within 30
days of the application filing;
      (3)   The owner shall provide a response to the draft report in writing,
and the Planning Commission report shall be finalized and placed on the Village
Board meeting agenda together with the owner’s submission materials and all
related documents within 30 days of receipt of the owner’s response and any
additional information required in the draft report; and
      (4)   The Village Board may approve the application with no conditions,
approve the application with conditions or disapprove the application by simple
majority vote.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 8-6-2018)
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 155.275 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Ordinance”.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations, standards
and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way
on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or industrial use,
in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act (P.A. 100-0585), as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.276 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application, as more specifically
provided for herein, and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with §§ VI(D)( 1 )(a)(i) through VI(D)(l)(a)(v) of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: Electric meter; concealment
elements; telecommunications demarcation box; ground-based enclosures;
grounding equipment; power transfer switch; and cut-off switch and vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.277 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses within the
village and are subject to administrative staff review, except as provided for
in §
155.280 (H) relating to height exceptions and variances.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.278 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to collocate
a small wireless facility. Applications received and processed, and permits
issued pursuant to this subchapter, shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
   (A)   Small cell facilities permit application. Prior to issuance of a
permit under this subchapter for the collocation of small wireless facilities
onto utility poles or wireless support structures, a wireless provider shall
submit an application to the Village Clerk which contains the following
information:
      (1)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, makeready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      (2)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      (3)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      (4)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      (5)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      (6)   Certification that collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge;
      (7)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      (8)   Proof of such insurance carried by the wireless provider
demonstrating the wireless provider’s compliance with the insurance
requirements of §
155.282 (E) herein.
   (B)   Submission of application. Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information and notices to the village by personal delivery at the
village’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked on the date
due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
      (1)   Priority. The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   Existing utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of 90 days
after submission of the complete application, or ten days after the receipt of
the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this subchapter.
      (3)   New utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of 120 days
after submission of the complete application, or ten days after receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the village. Receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this subchapter.
      (4)   Denial of application. The village shall deny an application which
does not meet the requirements of this subchapter.
         (a)   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the conditions contained in §
155.280  herein, require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
         (b)   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
         (c)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
         (d)   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
         (e)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      (5)   Small wireless facilities attachment agreement.
         (a)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, and in any event prior to the
commencement of installation, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
master small wireless facilities attachment agreement, to be provided by the
village, for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the
application.
         (b)   For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter
into a license supplement of the master small wireless facilities attachment
agreement. The master small wireless facilities attachment agreement contains
additional requirements that are applicable to the wireless provider and the
small wireless facility.
   (D)   Application approval.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
      (2)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
   (E)   Tolling period. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
      (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the village;
or
      (2)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   (F)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant shall be allowed to file a consolidated application
and receive a single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
      (2)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied.
      (3)   The village may issue separate permits for each collocation that is
approved in a consolidated application.
   (G)   Permit duration. The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this subchapter. If the Act is
repealed as provided in Section 90 therein, renewals of permits shall be
subject to the applicable village code provisions or regulations in effect at
the time of renewal.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.279 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Existing utility pole or wireless support structure. Every application
for the collocation of small wireless facilities upon existing utility poles or
wireless support structures shall be charged an application fee according to
the following fee schedule.
      (1)   Application for single small wireless facility. The applicant shall
pay an application fee of $650 for an application to collocate a single small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   Consolidated applications. The applicant shall pay an application
fee of $350 for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   New utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (1)   Every application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
involving the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure
shall be charged an application fee according to the fee in division (B)(2)
below.
      (2)   For an application involving installation of a new utility pole or
wireless support structure, the applicant shall pay an application fee of
$1,000 for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure.
   (C)   Application fee non-refundable. Notwithstanding any contrary provision
of state law or local ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by the required application fee. Application fees shall be non-
refundable.
   (D)   Application and permit not required.
      (1)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with this subchapter; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable codes.
      (2)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.280 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
subchapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’
      (2)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such
interference, and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the
interference by the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own
expense, shall remedy the interference in a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973
and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through 90.675.
      (3)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Prohibited areas. The wireless provider shall not collocate small
wireless facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (1)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (2)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms “communications
space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance with applicable law. The wireless provider shall comply
with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern
public safety.
   (F)   Design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district. At a
minimum, the wireless provider shall screen or conceal, as applicable, all
pole-mounted and ground-mounted equipment in the public right-of-way with
aesthetic features, such as canisters, paint, screen walls and landscaping, as
approved by the village with each permit. Concealing and screening shall blend
with or enhance the surrounding area with the use of artistic and/or
architectural detail and shall take into account scale, form, texture,
materials and color and shall conceal the equipment. Concealing and screening
features shall be noted on the site survey and construction drawings submitted
with each application.
   (G)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and conditions
section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
   (H)   Height limitations.
      (1)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
      (2)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in this subchapter. A request for variance shall be processed by the
village as follows.
      (1)   The village building official shall decide whether a variance is
authorized for each provision of this subchapter identified in the variance
request on an individual basis.
      (2)   The village building official may authorize a variance only if the
applicant requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
         (a)   One or more conditions not under the control of the applicant
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         (b)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      (3)   Any applicant aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the building official
under the provision of this subchapter shall have the right to appeal to the
Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may designate.
      (4)   The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely
decide the appeal.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.281 ANNUAL FEE.
   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual fee to collocate a
small wireless facility on a village utility pole according to the following
schedule:
   (A)   Located on the right-of-way. If the small wireless facility is
collocated on a village utility pole located in the right-of-way, the wireless
provider shall be charged an annual fee that equals the greater of $200 per
year, or the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   Located outside the right-of-way.
      (1)   If the small wireless facility is collocated on a village utility
pole located outside the right-of-way, the wireless provider shall be charged
an annual fee that equals the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to
the wireless provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.282 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this subchapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18(c)-
7201 of the State Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the
Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter
rail service or electric utility. The provisions of this subchapter do not
apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public
Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this subchapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this subchapter.
   (B)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018 shall comply with this subchapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this subchapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this paragraph.
   (C)   Abandonment. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt
of written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (1)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its master small wireless facilities attachment
agreement or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances
or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider. Any such transfer shall be subject in all respects to the
terms of the master small wireless facilities attachment agreement.
   (D)   Dispute resolution. The County Circuit Court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (E)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the
village harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this subchapter and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the village with respect to
consequential, incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (F)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; and
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage. The wireless provider shall include the village as an
additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial
general liability policy with its permit application, and in any event, prior
to the commencement of installation of any small wireless facility.
      (2)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $50 nor more
than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each day a violation exists or continues.
(Prior Code, 9-13-5) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 3-18-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2020-03  3-16-2020   Vacating a portion of undeveloped Chestnut Avenue pursuant
                     to the request of the village.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
Section Code Section
Section                              Code Section
5 ILCS 120                           30.02
5 ILCS 140                           31.039
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.                 31.040
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.               35.01
5 ILCS 430/5-15                      35.01
5 ILCS 430/10-10 430/10-40           35.01
5 ILCS 430/50-5                      35.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5                      35.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                   35.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                   35.01
35 ILCS 115/9                        34.01
65 ILCS                              154.105
65 ILCS 5                            32.01;
                                     32.05
65 ILCS 5/1-1 et. seq.               91.05
65 ILCS 5/3-9-4                      31.005
65 ILCS 5/3-12-1                     31.021
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25                  31.006
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                  31.020
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.10 31.085 
                                     31.087
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                     34.01
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                     34.01
65 ILCS 5/11-84-1                    152.11
65 ILCS 5/11-84-3                    152.07
65 ILCS 5/11-84-7                    152.08
65 ILCS 5/11-110-1 et seq.           153.01
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.               116.01
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.               150.157
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.               153.01
225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.               153.01
230 ILCS 40                          130.02;
                                     130.99
230 ILCS 40/1 et. seq.               112.07
                                     112.01;
                                     112.03;
235 ILCS 5                           112.04;
                                     112.06;
                                     112.16
235 ILCS 5/3-1                       112.01
410 ILCS 705                         114.01
510 ILCS 5                           95.03;
                                     95.04
625 ILCS 5                           70.01
625 ILCS 5-201 et seq.               70.33
625 ILCS 5/1-217                     73.09
625 ILCS 5/3-815                     73.09
625 ILCS 5/4-201                     74.04
625 ILCS 5/4-201 to 5/4-214          74.03
625 ILCS 5/4-214                     74.04
625 ILCS 5/6-101                     70.30
625 ILCS 5/6-303                     70.30
625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.             75.05
625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq.            75.03;
                                     75.04
625 ILCS 5/11-500                    75.03;
                                     75.04
625 ILCS 5/11-501                    70.30
625 ILCS 5/11-502                    75.03;
                                     75.04
625 ILCS 5/12-201                    75.03;
                                     75.04
625 ILCS 5/12-709                    75.03
720 ILCS 5                           70.30
720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et seq.            70.30
720 ILCS 5/24-1                      70.30
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                    70.30
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                    70.30
720 ILCS 5/36-1                      70.30
720 ILCS 550                         70.30
720 ILCS 570                         70.30
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             153.08
765 ILCS 205                         154.077
                                     154.001;
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.               154.003;
                                     154.045
765 ILCS 205/1(b)                    154.046
765 ILCS 205/1.005                   154.079
765 ILCS 205/2                       154.062;
                                     154.063
765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.               155.004
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Code Section
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-2-1      10.30
1-2-2      10.31
1-3-1      10.15
1-3-2      10.16
1-3-3      10.17
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.04
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      30.02
1-5-3      30.03
1-5-4      30.04;
           30.99
1-5-5      30.05
1-5-6      30.06
1-5-7      30.07
1-6-1      31.020
1-6-2      31.021
1-6-3      31.022
1-6-4      31.023
1-6-5      31.024
1-7-1      31.035
1-7-2      31.036
1-7-3      31.037
1-7-4      31.038
1-7-5      31.039
1-7-6      31.040
1-8-1      31.001
1-8-2      31.002
1-8-3      31.003
1-8-4      31.004
1-8-5      31.005
1-8-6      31.006
1-8-7      31.007
1-8-8      31.008
1-8-9      31.009
1-8A-1     31.055
1-8A-2     31.056
1-8A-3     31.057
1-8A-4     31.058
1-8B-1     31.070
1-8B-2     31.071
1-8C-1     31.085
1-8C-2     31.086
1-8C-3     31.087
1-8C-4     31.088
1-8C-5     31.089
1-9-4      34.01
1-10-1     32.01
1-10-2     32.02
1-10-3     32.03
1-10-4     32.04
1-10-5     32.05
1-10-6     32.06
1-10-8     32.07
1-12-1     35.01
2-1-1-1    110.15
2-1-1-2    110.16
2-1-1-3    110.17
2-1-1-4    110.18
2-1-1-5    110.19
2-1-1-6    110.20
2-1-1-7    110.21
2-1-1-8    110.22
2-1-1-9    110.23
2-1-1-10   110.24
2-1-1-11   110.25
2-1-1-12   110.99
2-1-2      110.01
2-1-3      110.02
2-2-1      111.01
2-2-2      111.02
2-2-3      111.03
2-2-4      111.04
2-2-5      111.05
2-2-6      111.06
2-3-1      113.01
2-3-2      113.02
2-3-3      113.03
2-3-4      113.04
2-3-5      113.05
2-3-6      113.06
2-3-7      113.07
2-3-8      113.08
2-3A-1     113.20
2-3A-2     113.21
2-3A-3     113.22
2-3A-4     113.23
2-3A-5     113.24
2-3A-6     113.25
2-3A-7     113.26
2-3A-8     113.27
2-3D-1     113.40
2-3D-2     113.41
2-3D-3     113.42
2-3D-4     113.43
2-4-1      112.01
2-4-2      112.02
2-4-3      112.03
2-4-4      112.04
2-4-5      112.05
2-4-6      112.06
2-4-7      112.07
2-4-8      112.08
2-4-9      112.09
2-4-10     112.10
2-4-11     112.11
2-4-12     112.12
2-4-13     112.13
2-4-14     112.14
2-4-15     112.15
2-4-16     112.16;
           112.99
2-4-17     112.17
3-2-1      91.01
3-2-2      91.02
3-2-3      91.03
3-2-4      91.04
3-2-5      91.05
3-2-7      91.06;
           91.99
3-3-1      92.01
3-3-2      92.02
3-3-3      92.03
3-3-4      92.04
3-3-5      92.05
4-1-1      152.01
4-1-2      152.02
4-1-3      152.03
4-1-4      152.04
4-1-5      152.05
4-1-6      152.06
4-1-7      152.07
4-1-8      152.08
4-1-9      152.09
4-1-10     152.10
4-1-11     152.11
4-1-12     152.12
4-1-13     152.13;
           152.99
4-1-14     152.14
4-1-15     152.15
4-1-16     152.16
4-1A-1     152.30
4-1A-2     152.31
4-1A-3     152.32
4-1A-4     152.33
4-1A-5     152.34
4-1A-6     152.35
4-1A-7     152.36
4-1A-8     152.99
4-2-1      152.50
4-2-2      152.51
4-2-3      152.52
4-2-4      152.53
4-3-1      93.01
4-3-6      93.02
4-3-8      93.99
4-4-1      153.01
4-4-2      153.02
4-4-3      153.03
4-4-4      153.04
4-4-5      153.05
4-4-6      153.06
4-4-7      153.99
4-4-8      153.07
4-4-9      153.08
4-4-10     153.09
4-5-1      50.01
4-5-2      50.02
4-5-3      50.03
4-5-4      50.04
4-5-5      50.05
4-5-6      50.06
4-6-1      94.01
4-6-2      94.02;
           94.99
4-6-3      94.03
5-1-1      33.01
5-1-2      33.02
5-1-3      33.03
5-1-4      33.04
5-1-5      33.05
5-1-8      33.06
           130.99;
5-2-1      132.99;
           133.99
5-2-2-1    130.01
5-2-2-1-1  130.02;
           130.99
5-2-2-3    130.03
5-2-2-4    130.04
5-2-2-5    130.05
5-2-2-8    130.06
5-2-2-9    130.07;
           130.99
5-2-3-3    131.01
5-2-3-4    131.02
5-2-3-6    131.03
5-2-3-7    131.04
5-2-4-6    132.01
5-2-4-7    132.02
5-2-5-1    133.01
5-2-5-2    133.02
5-2-5-3    133.03
5-2-5-4    133.04
5-2-5-6    133.05
5-2-5-7    133.06
5-2-5-8    133.07
5-3-1      95.01
5-3-2      95.02
5-3-3      95.03
5-3-4      95.04
5-3-5      95.05
5-3-6      95.06
5-3-7      95.07
5-3-8      95.08
5-3-9      95.99
5-3-10     95.09
5-3-11     95.10
5-3-12     95.11
5-4-1      11.01
5-4-2      11.02
5-4-3      11.03
6-1-1      70.01;
           70.99
6-1-2      70.02
6-2-1      70.15
6-2-2      70.16
6-2-3      70.17
6-2-4      70.18
6-3-1      71.01
6-3-2      71.02
6-3-3      71.03
6-3-4      71.04
6-3-5      71.05
6-3-6      71.06
6-3-7      71.07
6-3-8      71.08
6-3-9      71.09
6-3-12     71.10
6-3-13     71.11
6-4-1      Ch. 77, Sch. I
6-4-2      Ch. 77, Sch. II
6-4-3      Ch. 77, Sch. III
6-4-4      Ch. 77, Sch. IV
6-4-5      Ch. 77, Sch. V
6-4-6      Ch. 77, Sch. VI
6-4-7      Ch. 77, Sch. VII
6-4-8      Ch. 77, Sch. VIII
6-5-1      72.01
6-5-3      72.02
6-6-1      76.01
6-6-2      76.02
6-6-3      76.03
6-6-4      76.04
6-7-1      73.01
6-7-2      73.02
6-7-3      73.03
6-7-4      73.04
6-7-5      73.05
6-7-6      73.06;
           73.99
6-7-7      73.07
6-7-8      73.08
6-7-9      73.99
6-7-10     73.09;
           73.99
6-7-11     73.10;
           73.99
6-8-1      74.01
6-8-2      74.02;
           74.99
6-8-3      74.03
6-8-4      74.04
6-8-5      74.05
6-8-6      74.99
6-9-1      75.01
6-9-2      75.02
6-9-3      75.03
6-9-4      75.04
6-9-5      75.05
6-9-6      75.06
6-9-7      75.07
6-9-8      75.08;
           75.99
6-10-1     70.30
6-10-2     70.31
6-10-3     70.32
6-10-4     70.33
6-10-5     70.34
6-10-6     70.35
7-1-1      150.170
7-1-2      150.171
7-1-3      150.172
7-1-4      150.173
7-2-1      150.001
7-2-2      150.002
7-2-3      150.003
7-2-4      150.004
7-2-5      150.005
7-2-6      150.006
7-2-7      150.007
7-2-8      150.008
7-2-9      150.009
7-2-10     150.010
7-2-11     150.011
7-2-12     150.012
7-2-13     150.013
7-3-1      150.025
7-3-2      150.026
7-3-3      150.027
7-3-4      150.028
7-4-1      150.040
7-4-2      150.041
7-4-3      150.042
7-4-4      150.043
7-4-5      150.044
7-5-1      150.055
7-5-2      150.056
7-5-3      150.057
7-5-4      150.058
7-5-5      150.059
7-5-6      150.060
7-6-1      150.075
7-6-2      150.076
7-6-3      150.077
7-7-1      150.090
7-7-2      150.091
7-7-3      150.092
7-7-4      150.093
7-7-5      150.094
7-8-1      151.01
7-9-1      150.105
7-9-2      150.106
7-9-3      150.107
7-9-4      150.108
7-9-5      150.109
7-9-6      150.110
7-9-7      150.111
7-9-8      150.112
7-9-9      150.113
7-10-1     150.125
7-10-2     150.126
7-10-3     150.127
7-10-4     150.128
7-10-5     150.129
8-1-1      154.001
8-1-2      154.002
8-1-3      154.003
8-1-4      154.004
8-1-5      154.005
8-2-1      154.020
8-2-2      154.021;
           154.999
8-2-3      154.022
8-2-4      154.023
8-2-5      154.024
8-2-6      154.025
8-3-1      154.040
8-3-2      154.041
8-3-3      154.042
8-3-4      154.043
8-3-5      154.044
8-3-6      154.045
8-3-7      154.046
8-3-8      154.047
8-3-9      154.048
8-4-0      154.060
8-4-1      154.061
8-4-2      154.062
8-4-3      154.063
8-5-1      154.075
8-5-2      154.076
8-5-3      154.077
8-5-4      154.078
8-5-5      154.079
8-6-1      154.090
8-6-2      154.091
8-6-3      154.092
8-6-4      154.093
8-7-1      154.105
8-7-2      154.106
8-7-3      154.107
8-7-4      154.108
8-7-5      154.109
8-8-1      154.120
9-1-1      155.001
9-1-2      155.002
9-1-3      155.003
9-2-1      155.004
9-2-2      155.004
9-3-1      155.005
9-3-2      155.006
9-3-3      155.007
9-3-4      155.008
9-3-5      155.009
9-3-6      155.010
9-4-1      155.025
9-4-2      155.026
9-4-3      155.027
9-5-1      155.040
9-6-1      155.055
9-7-1      155.070
9-7-2      155.071
9-7-3      155.072
9-7-4      155.073
9-7-5      155.074
9-7-6      155.075
9-7-7      155.076
9-7-8      155.077
9-7-9      155.078
9-8-1      155.090
9-8-2      155.091
9-8-3      155.092
9-8-4      155.093
9-8-5      155.094
9-8-6      155.095
9-8-7      155.096
9-8-8      155.097
9-8-9      155.098
9-8-10     155.099
9-8-11     155.100
9-8-12     155.101
9-8-13     155.102
9-8-14     155.103
9-9-1      155.115
9-9-2      155.116
9-9-3      155.117
9-9-4      155.118
9-9-5      155.119
9-9-6      155.120
9-10-1     155.135
9-10-2     155.136
9-10-3     155.137
9-11-1     155.150
9-11-2     155.151
9-11-3     155.152
9-11-4     155.153
9-11-5     155.154
9-11-6     155.155
9-12-1     155.170
9-12-2     155.171
9-12-3     155.172
9-12-4     155.173
9-12-5     155.174
9-13-1     155.185
9-13-3     155.186
9-13-4     155.187
9-13-5     155.999
9-14-1     155.200
9-14-2     155.201
9-14-3     155.202
9-14-4     155.203
9-14-5     155.204
9-14-6     155.205
9-15-1     155.220
9-15-2     155.221
9-15-3     155.222
9-15-4     155.223
9-15-5     155.224
9-15-6     155.225
9-15-7     155.226
9-15-8     155.227
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-4-1987    112.17
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-4-1987    112.17
2015-06  - -         155.01
-        10-5-1970   Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        1-3-1972    32.01—
                     32.07
-        7-2-1973    Ch. 76, Sch. IV
-        5-15-1978   113.20—
                     113.27
-        3-24-1981   32.02;
                     32.03
                     112.01—
                     112.07;
-        4-5-1982    112.10—
                     112.16;
                     112.99
-        6-7-1982    50.01—
                     50.06
84-1     3-5-1984    31.085—
                     31.089
                     74.01—
85-7     8-5-1985    74.04;
                     74.99
88-2     5-2-1988    112.06
                     152.01—
89-1     3-13-1989   152.13;
                     152.99
89-8     12-4-1989   150.173
                     150.105;
90-2     4-2-1990    150.106;
                     150.108; 
                     150.113
90-8     8-6-1990    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
90-12    10-15-1990  152.13;
                     152.99
91-17    10-21-1991  130.06;
                     132.02
92-2     6-15-1992   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
94-8     11-21-1994  Ch. 76, Sch. VI
96-6     8-5-1996    152.15;
                     152.99
96-9     11-4-1996   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
97-4     4-21-1997   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
97-6     6-9-1997    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
97-7     10-20-1997  Ch. 76, Sch. VII
98-11    8-17-1998   130.07;
                     130.99
99-2     1-4-1999    71.11
99-4     5-17-1999   112.07
99-10    12-6-1999   Ch. 76, Sch. V
                     93.01;
2000-6   7-5-2000    93.02;
                     93.99
2001-08  10-1-2001   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
                     155.001—
                     155.010;
                     155.025—
                     155.027;
                     155.040;
                     155.055;
                     155.070—
                     155.078;
                     155.090—
                     155.103;
                     155.115—
                     155.120;
2002-4   3-18-2002   155.135—
                     155.137;
                     155.150—
                     155.155;
                     155.170—
                     155.174;
                     155.185—
                     155.187;
                     155.200—
                     155.205;
                     155.220—
                     155.227;
                     155.999
2002-8   8-19-2002   112.07
2003-09  4-7-2003    112.07;
                     112.15
2003-11  4-7-2003    150.171
2004-02  2-2-2004    71.11
2004-03  2-2-2004    150.171
2004-08  5-17-2004   35.01
2004-12  7-6-2004    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
2004-18  12-20-2004  113.05
2004-21  12-20-2004  33.01
2004-26  12-20-2004  71.09
2004-28  12-20-2004  Ch. 76, Sch. IV; Ch. 76, Sch. V
2004-32  12-20-2004  74.03
2004-33  12-20-2004  74.04
2004-34  12-20-2004  74.04;
                     74.99
2004-35  12-20-2004  74.05
2004-36  12-20-2004  150.125—
                     150.129
2005-02  3-21-2005   74.04
2005-04  4-18-2005   Ch. 76, Sch. VIII
2005-06  9-6-2005    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
2005-07  12-5-2005   112.07
2005-09  12-5-2005   112.09
2006-01  2-6-2006    112.08
2007-05  8-20-2007   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2007-06  8-20-2007   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
2007-11  12-3-2007   71.10
2008-05  9-2-2008    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
2008-06  9-15-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
                     30.06;
2008-08  10-6-2008   31.023;
                     31.036
2008-09  10-6-2008   152.16;
                     152.99
2008-10  10-6-2008   150.107
2008-11  10-6-2008   73.03
2008-15  12-15-2008  71.11
2009-01  2-2-2009    73.06;
                     73.99
                     95.01—
2009-04  9-8-2009    95.11;
                     95.99
2009-05  9-8-2009    Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2009-06  9-8-2009    72.02
                     31.037;
2009-10  12-21-2009  31.039;
                     31.040
2010-02  2-15-2010   112.13
2010-08  8-2-2010    73.08;
                     73.99
2010-09  9-7-2010    70.01;
                     70.99
2010-10  10-18-2010  151.01
                     75.01—
2011-02  5-16-2011   75.08;
                     75.99
2012-01  3-12-2012   33.06
                     112.11;
2012-09  10-1-2012   130.02;
                     130.99
2012-10  10-15-2012  70.30—
                     70.35
2013-01  2-11-2013   130.02
                     52.01;
                     52.02;
2013-04  5-6-2013    52.15—
                     52.24;
                     52.99
2015-06  - -2015     155.040;
                     155.141
2015-11  6-15-2015   154.003
                     154.001—
                     154.005;
                     154.020—
                     154.025;
                     154.040—
                     154.048;
                     154.060—
2015-16  8-3-2015    154.063;
                     154.075—
                     154.079;
                     154.090—
                     154.093;
                     154.105—
                     154.109;
                     154.120;
                     154.999
                     153.01—
2015-17  8-3-2015    153.09;
                     153.99
2015-18  8-3-2015    150.171
                     73.09;
2015-20  9-8-2015    73.10;
                     73.99
2016-01  2-15-2016   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2018-10  5-7-2018    150.105—
                     150.113
2018-21  5-7-2018    150.041;
                     150.171
2018-11  6-4-2018    150.140—
                     150.143
2018-16  7-16-2018   155.275—
                     155.282
2018-14  8-6-2018    155.240—
                     155.243
2018-15  8-6-2018    155.255—
                     155.262
2018-20  10-1-2018   155.025—
                     155.027
2019-03  5-20-2019   150.171
                     91.01—
2019-09  9-16-2019   91.06;
                     91.99
                     114.01—
2019-07  10-21-2019  114.03;
                     114.99
                     116.01—
2019-11  11-18-2019  116.04;
                     150.155—
                     150.159
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
2019-16  12-16-2019  51.15;
                     51.17—
                     51.25;
                     51.99
2020-09  - -2020     150.109;
                     150.110
2020-01  2-3-2020    155.025—
                     155.027
                     75.01—
2020-02  2-17-2020   75.08;
                     75.99
2020-03  3-16-2020   TSO I
2020-07  7-6-2020    75.03;
                     75.04
                     11.01;
                     11.02;
                     73.01;
2021-01  3-15-2021   73.03;
                     73.06;
                     73.09;
                     73.10;
                     73.99
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
2021-02  3-15-2021   51.15;
                     51.17—
                     51.25;
                     51.99
                     52.01;
                     52.02;
2021-03  3-15-2021   52.15—
                     52.24;
                     52.99
                     112.07;
2021-05  4-19-2021   112.16;
                     112.99
2021-07  7-19-2021   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
2022-01  - -2022     130.02
2022-02  3-14-2022   31.035
                     111.01—
2022-04  3-14-2022   111.06;
                     111.99
2022-09  4-4-2022    130.02
                     112.07;
2022-06  5-2-2022    112.13;
                     112.15
                     115.01—
2022-07  5-2-2022    115.12;
                     115.99
2022-08  5-2-2022    10.04;
                     10.99
2022-11  5-16-2022   155.040
2022-13  6-20-2022   112.07
                     51.02;
                     51.15—
2023-01  3-20-2023   51.20;
                     51.23;
                     51.99
                     52.002;
2023-02  4-1-2023    52.15—
                     52.22;
                     52.99
2023-05  6-6-2023    96.01—
                     96.04
                     90.01—
2023-06  8-8-2023    90.08;
                     90.99
                     73.01—
2023-07  8-21-2023   73.03;
                     73.10;
                     73.99
2023-08  8-21-2023   150.055
                     30.02;
2023-09  9-6-2023    30.03;
                     30.08
2024-01  4-15-2024   131.05
                    
 
