VILLAGE CODE
of
FRANKLIN GROVE, ILLINOIS
1987
Code current through:
Ord. 781-22, passed 5-9-2022
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Franklin Grove, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 781-22, passed May 9, 2022, and
Resolution 742-14, passed May 27, 2014. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.           
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE VILLAGE CODE OF FRANKLIN GROVE, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Franklin
Grove, Lee County, Illinois, an Illinois Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Franklin Grove, Illinois, prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the Official Code and Law of the Village as enacted by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as
to the correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official Village Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village of
Franklin Grove to be misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: Any person violating any provision of this Ordinance and the Code
adopted by the same shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   Section 7: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board
of Trustees.
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the village of Franklin
Grove. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the FRANKLIN GROVE
VILLAGE CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees
and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (1987 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1987 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1987 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The village clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed to do so by order of the
village board. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1987 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1987 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The village board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
CODE: The municipal code of Franklin Grove, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Lee, state of Illinois.
COURSE OR PATTERN OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Two (2) or more gang related criminal
offenses when: a) one or more of the offenses was committed after the effective
date of this ordinance; and b) the offenses were committed within five (5)
years of each other; and c) at least one offense involved the solicitation to
commit, conspiracy to commit, or commission of any offense defined as a
"felony" or "forcible felony" under the Illinois criminal code.
DISTRIBUTION: To give, sell, deliver, dispense, or issue or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
EMPLOYEE: Any person who may be required or directed by an employer in
consideration of direct or indirect gain or profit, to engage in any
employment, or to go, or work, or be at any time in any place of employment.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Franklin Grove".
EMPLOYER: Any person, firm, corporation, agent, manager, representative, or
other person having control or custody of any employment, place of employment,
or employee.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any physical facility operated by a commercial enterprise,
nonprofit entity, government agency or other person.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GANG RELATED ACTIVITY: Those activities which are conducted with the intent to
increase the gang's size or dominance, or with the intent to provide the gang
with an advantage in the criminal sector, or with the intent to obstruct
justice, or with the intent to otherwise directly or indirectly cause any
benefit or gain to or for the gang.
GRAFFITI: Any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram,
sketch, picture, or letter placed, without express written permission of the
owner, upon real or personal property of said owner.
JUVENILE: See definition of Minor.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MINOR: A person under eighteen (18) years of age, or in equivalent phrasing,
any person seventeen (17) years old or less.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Franklin Grove".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
ORGANIZATION: A corporation for profit, or not for profit, partnership, limited
partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, estate, trust or other
commercial legal entity.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
STREET GANG: Any combination, confederation, alliance, or understanding in law
or fact, that through its members or through the agency of any member and at
the direction, order or request of any member who is a leader or other
authority, engages in a course or pattern of criminal activity.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Franklin Grove, county of Lee, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as "mayor"
or "president" of the village.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not less than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for any offense 1 . (Ord. 662-05, 11-14-2005)
   A.   Unless otherwise stated herein, a separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this code and who wishes to
settle the claim with the village without the need of litigation, may avoid the
litigation by paying to the village clerk an amount equal to seventy five
percent (75%) of the fine applicable within thirty (30) calendar days of the
date of issuance of the notice of violation. (Ord. 671-06, 10-9-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1987 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Functions
1-5-2: Oath; Salary
1-5-3: Meetings Of The Board
1-5-4: President
1-5-5: Ordinances
1-5-6: Committees Of The Village Board
1-5-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
The board of trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office for four (4) year terms, according to the method provided by statute.
This board shall be the legislative department of the village government, and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated by statute
to it 1 . (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1, 5/3-5-2.
1-5-2: OATH; SALARY:
The members of the board of trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by ordinance
1 . (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  1-7-5 of this title.
1-5-3: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The village board shall hold its regular meetings in
the village hall on the first Monday or second Monday of each month at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. CST, or seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. CDT, and no notice
of such regular meetings shall be required.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the president of
the village or any three (3) trustees upon at least twenty four (24) hours'
notice to all members and the president; provided, that if all of the trustees
are present at a special meeting, no notice of such meeting shall be necessary
and such notice shall be deemed waived.
   C.   Open Meetings: Meetings of every kind and nature shall be open to the
public, except where specifically exempted by statute 1 . A meeting may be open
to the public and then closed to the public for the purpose of considering
matters specifically allowed to be considered at a closed meeting by statute.
Final action on all matters considered at a closed meeting shall be made at an
open meeting. (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 5 ILCS 120/2.02 et seq.
1-5-4: PRESIDENT 1 :
The village president shall be the presiding officer of all regular and special
meetings of the board of trustees and at all times when the board meets as a
committee of the whole. He shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or
motion except: a) where the vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie; or b)
where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or c) where a
vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is required by this
code to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. In each instance specified,
the president shall vote. Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting
president or president pro tem from voting in his capacity as trustee, but he
shall not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting president or
president pro tem. (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 6 of this title.
1-5-5: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Approval, Veto: All resolutions and motions: 1) which create any
liability against the village; or 2) which provide for the expenditure of its
money; or 3) to sell any village property, and all ordinances passed by the
village board shall be deposited with the village clerk. If the village
president approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he disapproves,
he shall return to the village board, with his written objections, at the next
regular meeting of the village board. The village president may disapprove of
any one or more sums appropriated by any ordinance, resolution or motion making
an appropriation, and if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the
village president may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion
making an appropriation. If the village president fails to return any ordinance
or any specified resolution with his written objections, within the designated
time, it shall become effective despite the absence of his signature.
   B.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in the preceding subsection, and every ordinance which is returned to
the board of trustees by the village president shall be reconsidered by the
board of trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees elected to the village board shall agree to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the president's refusal to sign it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the president's
veto shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal. (1987
Code)
1-5-6: COMMITTEES OF THE VILLAGE BOARD:
The standing committees of the village board, and their duties and
responsibilities are as follows:
   A.   Finance committee:
      1.   Prepare tax levy and appropriations ordinances.
      2.   Oversee financial data management.
      3.   Compile budget for board review.
      4.   Oversee publication of tax levy and appropriation ordinances.
      5.   Maintain depreciation schedules for village properties, buildings
and equipment.
      6.   Administer village insurance program to ensure that all requirements
are met for public properties and operations.
      7.   General supervision of matters concerning all finance matters.
      8.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks.
   B.   Properties committee:
      1.   Recommend construction, repairs, maintenance and improvements to all
public buildings, properties and equipment.
      2.   General oversight of all projects related to construction, repairs,
maintenance and improvements to all public buildings, properties and equipment.
      3.   Maintain a list of village buildings, properties and equipment.
      4.   Recommend purchase and sale of public buildings, properties and
equipment.
      5.   Maintain repair, maintenance, and replacement schedules for village
buildings and equipment.
      6.   Review and make recommendations on use agreements (rental, lease,
etc.) of public properties and equipment.
      7.   Develop annual budget for properties committee activities.
      8.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks.
   C.   Streets and alleys committee:
      1.   Provide overall supervision of the employees and contractors engaged
in the work of the streets and alleys department.
      2.   Recommend to the village board street repairs and major roadwork to
be completed.
      3.   Represent the village as needed in consultations with village
engineers on all projects related to the operation, maintenance and expansion
of streets and alleys, including bid preparations, proposals to the board and
the letting of bids.
      4.   Maintain inventory of street repair and maintenance materials.
      5.   Oversee tree maintenance, removal and replacement from village
properties and parkways.
      6.   Responsible for village sidewalk maintenance and improvements,
including sidewalk assistance program for private properties within the
village.
      7.   Responsible for cleaning, maintenance, repair and construction of
village storm sewer system to include storm sewer lines, catch basins,
culverts, curbs and gutters.
      8.   Supervise mowing of all village properties on day to day basis.
      9.   Supervise cleaning of village hall, Atlasta Park shelters, restrooms
on day to day basis.
      10.   General supervision of matters concerning streets and alleys.
      11.   Develop annual budget for streets and alleys committee activities.
      12.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks.
   D.   Water and sewer committee:
      1.   Provide overall supervision of the employees and contractors engaged
in the work of the water and sewer department.
      2.   Oversee operations and maintenance of wastewater treatment plant.
      3.   Oversee operations and maintenance of water supply system.
      4.   Ensure that all federal and state EPA standards of operation are met
in the supply of safe drinking water and in the operation of the wastewater
treatment plant are met and that reports are filed in a timely manner.
      5.   Represent the village as needed in consultations with village
engineers on all projects related to the operation, maintenance and
construction of the water supply and wastewater treatment system, including bid
preparations, proposals to the board and the letting of bids.
      6.   Supervise issuance of boil orders and ensure proper public notice is
given.
      7.   Ensure hydrants are flushed regularly and that supply shutoff valves
are working properly.
      8.   Ensure proper supply of chemicals are maintained and care and
storage of chemicals is in accordance with all regulatory standards.
      9.   Monitor water and sewer rates to expenses ratio to recommend rate
increases as necessary.
      10.   General supervision of matters concerning water and sewer
department.
      11.   Develop annual budget for water and sewer committee activities.
      12.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks.
   E.   Tourism and cultural enhancement committee:
      1.   Develop, implement and promote tourist, recreational and cultural
enhancement activities for the community.
      2.   General supervision of matters concerning the development of and
promotion of tourism, recreational and cultural enhancement programs and
activities.
      3.   Coordinate a schedule of recreational and cultural activities
encompassing all age groups with special emphasis on the young and the elderly.
      4.   Serve as village board representative to the park board.
      5.   Develop annual budget for tourism and cultural enhancement committee
activities.
      6.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks.
   F.   Community development committee:
      1.   Coordinate the implementation of the competitive community
initiative.
      2.   Work with the zoning board of appeals and the planning commission to
ensure that community development plans follow the comprehensive plan.
      3.   Advise the board of training opportunities and idea exchanges that
will enhance our ability to become active participants in community
development.
      4.   General supervision of all matters concerning community development.
      5.   Develop annual budget for community development committee
activities.
      6.   Coordinate activities with other committee chairmen to provide a
mutual exchange of necessary information to accomplish required tasks. (Ord.
704-10, 5-10-2010)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Qualifications
1-6-2: Bond
1-6-3: Appointments
1-6-4: Duties
1-6-5: President Pro Tem
1-6-1: ELECTION AND QUALIFICATIONS:
The president of the village shall be elected every four (4) years and shall
hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and
qualified. He shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector and
shall have resided within the corporate limits of the village at least one year
next preceding the date of the election for which he is a candidate. (1987
Code)
1-6-2: BOND:
The president of the village shall, before he enters upon the duties of his
office, execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the board of trustees,
conditioned as prescribed by law 1 . (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-6-3: APPOINTMENTS:
The president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, shall
appoint and discharge all officers of the village whose appointments are not
otherwise provided for by statute.
Whenever a vacancy shall occur in any office which by statute or ordinance the
president is authorized to fill, he shall at the regular meeting of the board
of trustees next occurring, communicate to the board the name of his appointee
to such office and, pending the approval or rejection by the board as to such
appointment, he may designate some suitable person to discharge the duties of
said office. (1987 Code)
1-6-4: DUTIES 1 :
   A.   Executive Duties: The president shall devote such time to the duties of
his office as the faithful discharge thereof may require.
   B.   General Duties: The president shall supervise the conduct of all
appointed officers and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the
duties of their respective offices. He shall inquire into all reasonable
complaints made against them and cause their neglects or violations of duties
to be promptly corrected.
   C.   Sign Licenses, Permits And Commissions: The president shall sign all
commissions, licenses, permits and warrants granted, issued or ordered by the
board of trustees or authorized by the ordinances of the village, except for
permits provided to be issued by or under the signature of some other
authorized village official, and may revoke any such licenses for the causes
hereinafter in this code provided.
   D.   Convey Tax Titles: Upon such terms as may be agreed upon with the
consent of the finance committee of the board of trustees, the president and
village treasurer may sell and convey any and all lots and parcels of land to
which a title is held by the village under sale and conveyance for the village
taxes or assessments.
   E.   Powers As To Litigation: The president shall sign, and is hereby
authorized to sign on behalf of the village, all instruments necessary to the
prompt prosecution or defense of any or all actions brought by or against the
village, including bonds for injunction. (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. For additional duties of the president, see sections 1-5-4 and 1-5-5 of
  this title.
1-6-5: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence of the president or his inability to act, the board
of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as president pro tem who,
during his absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the president;
provided, however, that the aforesaid provision shall be invoked only during
the prolonged absence or disability of the elected president as contemplated by
statute. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Village Clerk
1-7-2: Village Treasurer
1-7-3: Village Attorney
1-7-4: Chief Of Police
1-7-5: Compensation
1-7-6: Social Security Benefits
1-7-7: Equal Employment Policy
1-7-8: Part Time Police Officers
1-7-1: VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Election, Term, Qualifications: The village clerk shall be elected and
serve for a four (4) year term and until his successor is elected and qualified
as provided by statute 1 . He must be a resident of the village one year prior
to his election, and be a qualified voter.
   B.   Bond, Oath, Salary: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
clerk shall give a bond as provided by statute 2 , with sureties to be approved
by the board of trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties. He shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute 3 , and shall
receive such salary for his other services as is determined by the board of
trustees 4 .
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   General Powers And Duties: The village clerk shall have all the
powers and perform all the duties now or hereafter provided by the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village. Among other things, it shall be his
other duties as follows:
         a.   To keep his office at the place appointed by the board of
trustees.
         b.   To attend all meetings of the board of trustees and to take
minutes of all its proceedings.
         c.   To record such minutes, together with all ordinances passed by
the board of trustees, in books to be kept for that purpose.
         d.   To publish all proceedings of the board of trustees and all
ordinances required by law to be published.
         e.   To serve all notices, either by personal service, by publication
or by posting, required by law or the order of the board of trustees or the
mayor to be served, unless such notices are expressly ordered to be served by
some other person.
         f.   To sign and keep a record of all warrants drawn on the village
treasurer, stating the date, number and amount thereof, to whom payable and
against what fund drawn.
         g.   To provide the necessary ballots, ballot boxes and cards of
instructions, and other blanks and forms, for use in the village elections, and
to see that all notices for such elections are properly published.
         h.   To notify, within five (5) days after the result of any election
is declared or appointment made, all persons elected or appointed to any
village office of their election or appointment, and unless such persons shall
respectively qualify within ten (10) days after such notice, the office shall
become vacant, and further to administer the oath of office to each such person
so elected or appointed, except that the mayor shall administer such oath of
office to the clerk.
         i.   To file all ordinances, communications, receipts and other
documents required to be filed and to arrange the same in systematic order for
ready reference.
         j.   To keep the corporate seal of the village and affix the same to
all papers which require such seal.
         k.   To be the custodian and keeper of all the books, records,
ordinances and papers of the village, except as otherwise provided by law or
ordinance.
         l.   To make copies of all papers in his office, and transcripts from
journals and other records and files in his office, certified under the
corporate seal for use in evidence when required.
         m.   To file or cause to be filed a certified copy of each tax levy
ordinance with the county clerk within the time required by law.
         n.   To maintain a record of the date of commencement and expiration
of the term of office of each elected village officer and of each appointed
village official.
      2.   Powers And Duties Concerning Documents:
         a.   General: The village clerk shall be the custodian of all
documents belonging to the village which are not assigned to the custody of
some other officer.
         b.   Indices: The village clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index
to all documents and records kept by him, so that ready access thereto and use
thereof may be had.
         c.   Licenses And Permits:
            (1)   The clerk shall sign and issue all licenses and permits, in
compliance with the provisions of this code or any other ordinance of the
village, or as so ordered by the mayor and board of trustees or other proper
officer of the village and collect the fees therefor.
            (2)   The clerk shall keep a full record of all licenses granted,
transferred or revoked by the board of trustees or the mayor, or under their
authority, with the date that the same were granted, transferred or revoked,
and if revoked, the cause therefor, with the number thereof and the full name
and residence of applicants for such licenses, in a book to be kept by him for
that purpose, and, where bonds are required, the names of the bondsmen or
sureties.
         d.   Petitions, Bids, Communications: All petitions, bids, bills or
other communications addressed to the mayor and board of trustees shall be
received by the village clerk and read by him at the meeting of the mayor and
board of trustees next succeeding their receipt by him, unless otherwise
ordered by the mayor and board of trustees. The clerk shall, without delay,
deliver to the officers of the village, and to any committee of the board of
trustees, all communications referred to such officers or committee by the
mayor and board of trustees.
         e.   Ordinances, Resolutions: The village clerk shall, without delay,
deliver to the mayor all ordinances or resolutions under his charge which may
require approval or other action by the mayor, with all papers on which the
same were founded.
      3.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
village clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required
by statute or ordinance. (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-9.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
4 4. See section
  1-7-5 of this chapter.
1-7-2: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment, Term: The village treasurer shall be appointed and serve
for a four (4) year term and until his successor is qualified, as provided by
statute 1 .
   B.   Bond Requirements: The treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties and to indemnify the village for any loss
due to neglect of duty or wrongful act on his part; and the amount of such bond
shall be an amount of money that is not less than three (3) times the latest
federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor fuel
tax purposes. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk, as required by statute 2
.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The village treasurer shall have and perform the
following powers and duties:
      1.   General: Perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by statute
or by ordinance. He shall receive all money paid to the village, either
directly from the person paying it, or from the hands of such other officer as
may receive it, and he shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly
signed by the village clerk and the president.
      2.   Deposit Of Funds: Deposit the village funds in such depositories as
may be selected from time to time, as is provided by law, and he shall keep the
village money separate and distinct from his own and shall not intermingle his
own money with village money or make private or personal use of the village
funds.
      3.   Records: Keep records showing all money received by him, the source
from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out; and he
shall keep a record showing at all times the financial status of the village.
      4.   Accounts: Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the
board of trustees, and shall keep them in the manner required by said board.
      5.   Reports: Make monthly reports to the board of trustees showing the
state of finances of the village, and the amounts received and spent during the
month, which reports shall be filed. He shall make an annual report after the
close of the fiscal year, as required by statute, showing the total amount of
all receipts and expenditures of the village and his transactions as treasurer
during the preceding year.
   D.   Salary: The salary of the village treasurer shall be set by the village
board 3 . (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-8-1.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
3 2. See section
  1-7-5 of this chapter.
1-7-3: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment, Bond: There is hereby created the office of village
attorney, an executive office of the village. The attorney shall be appointed
by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
to serve a term of one year. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
village attorney shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the board of
trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties.
   B.   Special Counsel: The village president, with the consent of the board
of trustees, may from time to time retain an attorney to represent or advise
the village on legal matters if no village attorney has been appointed; and he
may likewise retain special counsel to advise or represent the village on
special matters or to assist the village attorney.
   C.   General Powers And Duties:
      1.   Ordinances And Documents: The attorney shall, on direction of the
president or board of trustees, draft or supervise the drafting of all
ordinances and resolutions to be acted on, and all contracts or other documents
in which the municipality is interested.
      2.   Suits And Actions: The attorney shall prosecute or defend any and
all suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer
of the village on behalf of the village or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the village, except such suits or actions as are defended by
attorneys retained by the village's insurance carrier pursuant to their rights
under insurance policies.
      3.   Advice: The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting it, whenever requested to
do so by any village official. Upon request by the president or the board of
trustees, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   D.   Compensation: The attorney shall receive such compensation as may be
decided from time to time by the board of trustees.
   E.   Special Assessment And Condemnation Proceedings, Compensation: The
attorney shall carry through to completion all special assessment proceedings
and condemnation proceedings for which he shall receive additional compensation
based upon the fair and reasonable value of his services. (1987 Code)
1-7-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: The president of the village board of trustees, by and
with the advice, consent and approval of the said board of trustees, shall have
power to appoint a chief of police for the village.
   B.   Term Of Office: The chief of police, appointed in pursuance of
subsection A of this section, shall hold his office from the time of his
appointment to the end of the then fiscal year and until his successor is
appointed and qualified.
   C.   Oath, Bond: The chief of police, appointed in pursuance of this
section, shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and
subscribe an oath to support the constitution of the United States and the
constitution of the state of Illinois and that he will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office of chief of police according to the best of his ability,
and shall also enter into a bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), with security to be approved by the village board of trustees,
payable to the village, and conditioned for the faithful performance of the
duties of the office and the payment of all monies received by the chief of
police according to law and the ordinances of the village.
   D.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to enforce order
within the corporate limits of the village and to serve summonses and warrants
issued for persons charged with a violation of any ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 165, 6-1-1903; amd. 1987 Code)
1-7-5: COMPENSATION:
Committee chairpersons:  
Committee chairpersons:             
Community development               $700.00 per annum
Finance                             700.00 per annum
Properties                          700.00 per annum
Street and alley                    700.00 per annum
Tourism                             700.00 per annum
Water and sewer                     700.00 per annum
                                     $4,500.00 per annum, payable annually, for
Mayor (village president)           duties as village president, police
                                     commissioner and liquor commissioner
Village clerk                       $10,000.00 per annum, payable monthly
Village treasurer                   $6,000.00 per annum, payable monthly
                                     $150.00 per general meeting attended;
Village trustees                    trustees will also be paid $10.00 per
                                     special meeting attended, payable annually
Zoning officer and zoning board of  See section
appeals                              2-1-3 of this code
 
Note: Increases in elected officials' salaries are limited to those who are
elected after October 8, 2012, or seated after the effective date of May 1,
2013.
(Ord. 729-12, 10-8-2012; amd. Ord. 774-20, 10-19-2020)
1-7-6: SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS:
   A.   Policy Of The Village: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the village to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective
as of January 1, 1955, the benefits of the federal old age and survivors
insurance system, as authorized by the federal social security act and
amendments thereto. In pursuance of said policy and for that purpose the
village clerk shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
   B.   Agreement With State: The village clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to execute an agreement with the state employee's retirement system of
the state social security unit, to secure coverage of eligible employees as
provided in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby authorized to be
made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency in such
amounts and at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
   D.   Contributions From Village: Employer contributions and administrative
expenses shall be paid to the state agency in accordance with applicable state
laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   E.   Records And Reports: The village clerk shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations. (Ord. 378, 3-7-1955)
1-7-7: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY:
For the purpose of this section, the term "minority" will refer to American
Indians, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as youth,
elderly, women, or persons with disabilities.
   A.   The village of Franklin Grove hereby declares to uphold, defend,
enforce, and advocate for all laws related to equal employment opportunity
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Title VI of the civil rights act of 1964, which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national
origin.
      2.   Title VII of the civil rights act of 1964, which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      3.   Title IX of the education amendments of 1972, which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      4.   The equal pay act of 1963, which covers all employees who are
covered by the fair labor standards act. The act forbids pay differentials on
the basis of sex.
      5.   The age discrimination act of 1967, which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
      6.   Federal executive order 11246, which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
      7.   Section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR 32, which prohibits any discrimination based on
disability.
      8.   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31
and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the department
of labor.
      9.   Chapter 68, article I, section 17-19 of the Illinois constitution,
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
      10.   The Americans with disabilities act of 1990, which prohibits any
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disability.
   B.   The village of Franklin Grove will assure nondiscriminatory employment
practices in recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement,
layoff or termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other
forms of compensation and use of facilities.
   C.   The village of Franklin Grove will not contract with other agencies,
banks, businesses, vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin,
political affiliation or belief:
      1.   The village of Franklin Grove will incorporate into any contract for
construction work, or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules,
regulations, and orders of the secretary of labor or of any prior authority
that remains in effect, which is paid of in whole or in part with the aid of
such financial assistance, the following "equal opportunity clause":
         a.   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of the
nondiscrimination clause.
         b.   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, or disability.
         c.   In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
         d.   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations, or orders of the secretary of labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   D.   The village of Franklin Grove assures that it will actively provide
nondiscriminatory outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   E.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village of
Franklin Grove as well as surrounding areas.
   F.   The village of Franklin Grove will provide accommodations to the best
of its ability for employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and
structural limitations.
   G.   All village of Franklin Grove employees are expected to adhere to the
above policy and to work actively for its implementation both internally and in
carrying out village program activities.
   H.   The village of Franklin Grove designates the village president/mayor
and village board to carry out the EEO/AA plan. (Ord. 626-02, 9-9-2002)
1-7-8: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Employment: The village of Franklin Grove may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Franklin Grove police department, but the number of hours
a part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village board, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the village board at any time. Part time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the police department. (Ord. 723-12, 3-12-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Village Taxes
1-8-2: Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1-8-1: VILLAGE TAXES:
   A.   Tax For General Purposes: The maximum tax rate for general corporate
purposes for the village shall be 0.2299 of the assessed value of all taxable
property in the municipality as ascertained and set by law 1 . (Ord. 362, 12-3-
1951)
   B.   Library Tax: The maximum tax rate for the library tax for the village
shall be 0.0372 of the assessed value of all taxable property in the
municipality as ascertained and set by law 2 . (Ord. 363, 12-3-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1.
2 2. 75 ILCS 5/3-1.
1-8-2: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Wage Rate Adopted: To the extent and as required by "an act 1
regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other workers employed in any
public works by the state, county, city or any public body or any political
subdivision or by anyone under contract for public works", approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics, and other workers engaged in construction of public works
coming under the jurisdiction of the village of Franklin Grove is hereby
ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction
work in the Lee County area as determined by the Illinois department of labor
as of June 1996, a copy of that determination being attached to the ordinance
codified herein and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said act,
any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the department of
labor of the state of Illinois shall supersede the department's June
determination and apply to any and all public works construction undertaken by
the village of Franklin Grove. The definition of any terms appearing in the
ordinance codified herein which are also used in the aforesaid act shall be the
same as in said act.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to apply said general prevailing wages as herein ascertained to any work or
employment except public works construction of the village of Franklin Grove to
the extent required by aforesaid act.
   C.   Rates To Be Posted: The village of Franklin Grove shall publicly post
or keep available for inspection by any interested party in the main office of
the village of Franklin Grove this determination or any revisions of such
prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of the current revised
determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall be attached to
all contract specifications.
   D.   Copies Made Available: The village of Franklin Grove shall mail a copy
of this determination to any employer, and to any association of employers and
to any person or association of employees who have filed their names and
addresses requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates
and the particular class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   E.   Certified Copies To Be Filed: The village of Franklin Grove shall
promptly file a certified copy of the ordinance codified herein with both the
secretary of state index division and the department of labor of the state of
Illinois.
   F.   Publication: The village of Franklin Grove shall cause to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the area a copy of the ordinance
codified herein, and such publication shall constitute notice that the
determination is effective and that this is the determination of this public
body. (Ord. 743-14, 6-9-2014)
 
Notes
1 3. 820 ILCS 130/1.
CHAPTER 9
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
1-9-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Prohibited Acts
1-9-4: Penalty
1-9-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws in order that the safety and general welfare, peace
and health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby
declared the policy of the village of Franklin Grove, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the village of Franklin Grove that no owner,
lessee, sublessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or
corporation having the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any
housing accommodation and/or real property within the village, or any agent of
these shall refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from
any person or group of persons such housing accommodations and/or real property
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease
of any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of
facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 99-590,
4-12-1999)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNERS: Any person/persons who held legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limit of the village of Franklin Grove,
Illinois. (Ord. 99-590, 4-12-1999)
1-9-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the village of Franklin Grove,
Illinois:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly
any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loan,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purchase of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability in
the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in the block,
neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 99-590, 4-12-1999)
1-9-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the village of Franklin Grove, Illinois, to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 99-590, 4-12-1999)
CHAPTER 10
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-10-3: Gift Ban
1-10-4: Violations And Penalties
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Franklin Grove, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Franklin Grove.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating the preparing, circulating, reviewing, or filing any
petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 647-04,
6-14-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-10-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Franklin Grove in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment, or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position for which the salary is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because
he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a political
party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 647-04, 6-14-2004)
1-10-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee, and no spouse of
or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section.
   A.   Exceptions: This section is not applicable to the following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this section, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   B.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 647-04, 6-14-2004)
1-10-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-10-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-10-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-10-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village of Franklin Grove by filing in the circuit court an
information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall
be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall
require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable
doubt.
A violation of section
1-10-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village of Franklin Grove, or, if an ethics commission has
been created, by the commission through the designated administrative
procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-10-2 or section
1-10-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 647-04, 6-
14-2004)
CHAPTER 11
NONPAYMENT FOR VILLAGE SERVICES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Denial Of Village Services For Nonpayment
1-11-1: DENIAL OF VILLAGE SERVICES FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Any person owing the village of Franklin Grove any money for municipal
services rendered, including, but not limited to, water, sewer and garbage,
shall upon default or nonpayment thereof more than thirty (30) days of the due
date thereof, be denied all village services including water, sewer, garbage
and the issuance of any building permits. Such denial of village services shall
continue until such default or nonpayment is satisfied by payment in full,
including any fees, costs or interest thereon.
   B.   Prior to the denial of service by the village as provided herein, the
village clerk shall notify the person subject to the denial of services, which
notice shall be done by way of a notice of default sent by mail to the last
known address of such person or by posting a notice of default on the property
of any such person. A notice of default shall state the date on which the
denial of services shall take effect. Once notice is given as provided herein,
it shall remain in full force and effect until a full satisfaction of all
defaults and nonpayments, including interest and fees thereon, is made.
   C.   The village clerk may record a notice of default as a lien, which shall
be recorded in the county recorder's office, and which will remain in full
force and effect until the recordation of a notice of satisfaction has been
filed by the village clerk.
   D.   The denial of village services to any person as provided herein shall
apply to any and all property of that person located within the village of
Franklin Grove, including all property owned, leased, or possessed by such
person and to all successors in interest, purchasers, lessees, and agents of
that person, except for bona fide purchasers.
   E.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from pursuing any other
remedies for nonpayment as may be provided by law. (Ord. 669-06, 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 12
ENGLISH AS THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Official Language Established
1-12-2: Meetings
1-12-3: Exemptions
1-12-4: Compliance With Federal Laws
1-12-5: Languages Other Than English
1-12-6: Conflicts
1-12-7: Validity
1-12-1: OFFICIAL LANGUAGE ESTABLISHED:
The official language of the village of Franklin Grove shall be English. (Ord.
684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-2: MEETINGS:
Except as provided in section
1-12-3 of this chapter, the English language shall be used in conducting all
official meetings of the village board of trustees, committees, commissions,
and advisory boards, and shall be used for all documents, forms and writings
prepared for the utilized by any of the board of trustees, and such committees,
commissions, and/or advisory boards of the village. (Ord. 684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempted from use of the English language:
   A.   Protecting the public health or safety;
   B.   Complying with the Native American languages act, the individuals with
disabilities education act, or any other applicable federal law, regulation, or
order, including executive order 13166 to the extent applicable;
   C.   Protecting the rights of victims of crimes, or of persons charged with
crimes;
   D.   Collecting fees, fines and/or penalties due to the village;
   E.   Promoting trade, commerce, and tourism in the village;
   F.   Teaching or encouraging the learning of a language other than English,
including teaching English to those who are not fluent in the language;
   G.   Utilizing terms of art or terms or phrases from other languages which
are commonly used in communications, which are otherwise presented in English;
and
   H.   Creating or promoting state or agency mottos, inscribing public
monuments, and performing other acts involving the customary use of a language
other than English. (Ord. 684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-4: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL LAWS:
The village shall comply with the requirements of any applicable federal law,
regulation, or order, in regard to the use of any language or languages other
than English, and/or providing services to persons of limited English
proficiency, as required by law, and shall allow the use of any language other
than English when and as so required. (Ord. 684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-5: LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as infringing upon or limiting the
right of any individual to use any language other than English in his or her
private communications or actions. (Ord. 684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-6: CONFLICTS:
Any motion, order, resolution or ordinance in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter is to the extent of such conflict hereby superseded and waived.
(Ord. 684-07, 7-9-2007)
1-12-7: VALIDITY:
If any section, subdivision, sentence or phrase of this chapter is for any
reason held to be void, invalid, or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter. (Ord. 684-07, 7-
9-2007)
CHAPTER 13
SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1
SECTION:
1-13-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-13-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
 
Notes
  1. This policy was drafted using the Illinois Department of Human Rights
1 Sexual Harassment Model Policy and has been modified to conform to Public Act
  100-0554.
1-13-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Franklin Grove to prohibit
harassment of any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal
employee or Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All
Municipal officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 761-18, 1-15-
2018, eff. 1-15-2018)
1-13-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 761-18, 1-15-2018, eff. 1-15-2018)
1-13-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 761-
18, 1-15-2018, eff. 1-15-2018)
1-13-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 3 .
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 761-18, 1-15-2018,
eff. 1-15-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-13-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 761-18, 1-15-2018, eff. 1-15-
2018)
1-13-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 761-18, 1-15-2018, eff.
1-15-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created, Appointment, Terms Of Office
2-1-2: Organization, Meetings
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-5: Procedures
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED, APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF OFFICE:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby created. Said board shall consist of seven
(7) members appointed by the village president and confirmed by the village
board of trustees to serve the following terms: one for one year, one for two
(2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5)
years, one for six (6) years and one for seven (7) years; the successor to each
member so appointed to serve a term of five (5) years. (Ord., 10-2-1967)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS:
One of the members of the board shall be named as chairman at the time of his
appointment. The board shall appoint a secretary from its membership and shall
prescribe rules for the conduct of its affairs. Meetings of the board shall be
open to the public. (Ord., 10-2-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the zoning board of appeals shall receive no compensation for their
services. The zoning officer shall receive twenty dollars ($20.00) for each
permit issued. (Ord. 545, 4-6-1992)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of appeals shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law and
by the zoning regulations of this code, which powers and duties are more
particularly specified as follows:
   A.   Interpretation: Upon appeal from a decision by an administrative
official, to decide any question involving the interpretation of any provision
of the zoning regulations, including determination of the exact location of any
district boundary if there is uncertainty with respect thereto.
   B.   Special Permits: To issue special permits for any of the uses for which
the zoning regulations require the obtaining of such permits from the board of
appeals, or for the extension of a building or use as such existed at the
effective date of said regulations into a contiguous more restrictive district
for a distance not exceeding fifty feet (50'), but not for any other use or
purpose. No special permit shall be granted by the board of appeals unless it
finds that:
      1.   The use is listed in the zoning regulations as a special permitted
use; and
      2.   All provisions of the zoning regulations governing the issuance of
such permits are followed exactly.
   C.   Variances: To vary or adopt the strict application of any requirements
of the zoning regulations, provided no variance in the strict application of
any provision thereof shall be granted by the board of appeals unless it finds
that:
      1.   There are special circumstances applying to the land or buildings
for which the variance is sought, which circumstances are peculiar to such land
or buildings in the vicinity;
      2.   Said circumstances are such that the strict application of the
provisions of the zoning regulations would deprive the applicant of the
reasonable use of such land or building;
      3.   The variance as granted by the board of appeals is the minimum
variance that will accomplish the reasonable use of the land or building in
question;
      4.   The granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the zoning regulations and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. In granting any
variance, the board of appeals shall prescribe any conditions that it deems to
be necessary or desirable, such conditions to include among others: a) that the
variance shall be used only for those purposes as stated in the variance as
granted, and b) that said variance shall be used within one year from the date
said variance was granted, and c) in the event said variance is not used within
such time limit, the variance as granted becomes null and void and all
conditions of the zoning regulations applying to the property in question
previous to the granting of said variance are in full force and effect.
   D.   Zoning Of Annexed Areas: To recommend to the village board, at least
ten (10) days previous to the passage of any ordinance annexing parcels to the
village, the district classification to be given to any parcels annexed to the
village.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: To adopt such rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary from time to time to carry into effect the provisions of the
zoning regulations. (Ord., 10-2-1967)
2-1-5: PROCEDURES:
The board of appeals shall act in strict accordance with the procedures
specified by law and the zoning regulations. All appeals and applications made
to the board shall be in writing on forms prescribed by the board. Every appeal
or application shall refer to the specific provision of the ordinance involved
and shall exactly set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the use for
which the special permit is sought, or the details of the variance that is
applied for and the grounds on which it is claimed that the variance should be
granted, as the case may be. (Ord., 10-2-1967)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
SECTION:
2-2-1: Agency Established
2-2-2: Coordinator
2-2-3: Functions
2-2-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-2-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-2-6: Emergency Action
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-8: Reimbursement By State
2-2-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-2-10: Oath
2-2-11: Office
2-2-12: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
2-2-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the Franklin Grove ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action or from natural or manmade disaster, in
accordance with the "Illinois emergency services and disaster act of 1975" 1 .
This ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members as may
be selected by the coordinator. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1.
2-2-2: COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of the village ESDA shall be appointed by the village president
and shall serve until removed by same.
The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the village president as provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve of the
coordinator, the village president, or any person designated by him, shall be
and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-3: FUNCTIONS:
The village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as shall
be prescribed in and by the state ESDA plan and program prepared by the
governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
governor. In addition, the ESDA shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided in the state ESDA act. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the village ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the director of the state ESDA as
provided by law.
The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the coordinator
of the village ESDA organization.
Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or officer while
serving on call to duty by the governor, or the state director, shall receive
the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to
such employment of office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the village president and the state
director of ESDA. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the village ESDA to
cooperate fully with the state ESDA and with the governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held. Members who are not village employees or officers shall receive for such
training time such compensation as may be established by the village president.
(Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of the mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The village president may, on recommendation of the village coordinator of
ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster.
In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village coordinator of ESDA
is authorized on behalf of the village to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in accordance with
the current approved disaster plan on file, in view of exigency, without regard
to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law
pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as authorized by the state ESDA
act; provided, that if the village president and board of trustees meet at such
time he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that
body. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                           , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and, that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States, or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the village of Franklin Grove
ESDA organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-11: OFFICE:
The village president is authorized to designate space in the village building
or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the village president, for the village
ESDA as its office. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
2-2-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The village president may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law and may levy in addition, for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed
value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by
the state ESDA act; however, that amount collectible under such levy shall in
no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 469, 10-4-1976)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment And Composition
2-3-2: Officers Of The Board
2-3-3: Powers And Duties; Procedures
2-3-4: Records
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a board of local improvements which shall be
comprised of the village president and two (2) members of the board of
trustees. (1987 Code)
2-3-2: OFFICERS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   President: The village president shall be the president of the board of
local improvements.
   B.   Engineer: The village engineer shall be the engineer of the board of
local improvements.
   C.   Secretary: The village clerk shall be the secretary of the board of
local improvements. He shall keep all records pertaining to the activities of
such board and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the board
or by statute or ordinance.
   D.   Attorney: The village attorney shall be the attorney of the board of
local improvements. (1987 Code)
2-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES; PROCEDURES:
In making local improvements by special assessment, the board of local
improvements and the president and board of trustees shall have those powers
and duties and shall follow those procedures set forth in chapter 24, division
2 of article 9, Illinois municipal code, as amended prior to the effective date
hereof. Said division 2 is hereby adopted by reference, not less than one copy
of such division having been on file in the office of the village clerk for a
period of fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date hereof. The board of
local improvements and the president and board of trustees shall have all the
powers and duties set forth in said statute incorporated herein by reference.
(1987 Code)
2-3-4: RECORDS:
The board of local improvements shall keep accurate records of all work
undertaken by it, showing the work undertaken, the work accomplished, the
expenditures made and the amount of money received. (1987 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-1-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-1-4: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies Tax
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-1 of
the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every retailer required to account for municipal
retailers' occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 429,
9-8-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier and serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall
file, on or before the first day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by section 9 of the "service occupation
tax act", as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 430,
9-8-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-1-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the provisions
of section 8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code, upon the privilege of using
in the municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased
outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered
with an agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible property, with selling price
to have the meaning as defined in the use tax act approved July 14, 1955 1 .
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois
department of revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid
before the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is
issued. (Ord. 458, 11-4-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-1-4: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES TAX:
The village shall levy each year a two percent (2%) tax on the gross receipts
of fire insurance companies operating within the village limits, to be used for
fire department purposes only 1 . (Ord. 302, 10-2-1933)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1.
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENT ARCADES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Issuance Of License, Investigations
3-2-5: License Fees
3-2-6: Term Of License, Renewals
3-2-7: Conditions Of License
3-2-8: Gambling
3-2-9: Minors
3-2-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-11: Revocation Of License
3-2-12: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, when used herein, are defined as follows:
AMUSEMENT ARCADE: The operation by any person, firm, partnership or corporation
of two (2) or more coin operated amusement devices for public use.
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or similar object for the purpose of
amusement or skill or for the playing of which a fee is charged. This term does
not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement
features, nor does the term include any coin operated mechanical music devices.
Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the use of any device prohibited by
law or the use of any device in any manner prohibited by law. (Ord. 510, 12-3-
1984)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the operation of any amusement
arcade on any premises within the village unless a license has first been
obtained for the amusement arcade. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An amusement arcade license shall be issued only upon payment of the stated
fee, and a sworn application by the person seeking the license. In case the
applicant is a partnership, all partners must sign and verify the application.
In case the applicant is a corporation, all officers must sign and verify the
application and indicate their official position. The information required in
the application form must be furnished as to each person signing the
application. Each application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The applicant's full name, social security number, driver's license
number, residence address and business address.
   B.   The address of the proposed amusement arcade.
   C.   The sales or occupational tax number of the licensee.
   D.   The name and address of every person who has any interest in the
amusement arcade, and the nature of that interest.
   E.   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any felony, or of
pandering, gambling, operating a gambling device, operating a gaming house or
being a keeper of a house of ill fame, or other misdemeanor.
   F.   Whether or not the applicant is at the time of making the application
keeping or in any way connected with a gambling house or a house of ill fame.
   G.   Whether or not the applicant, or his or her spouse, or any member of
the applicant's household, is a member of the official governing body of the
village or employed by the village; whether or not any member of the governing
body of the village or employee thereof is interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the license applied for, the devices or the
operation of the same; and whether or not the applicant has received or
borrowed money or anything else of value or accepted credit from any member of
the village governing board or any employee of the village governing board or
the spouse of any member of the household of any such member or employee.
   H.   A statement that the applicant, if requested by the president of the
village board, will permit a record of his fingerprints to be made at the
direction of the village board for the purpose of additional investigation to
determine whether or not the application should be granted. (Ord. 510, 12-3-
1984)
3-2-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE, INVESTIGATIONS:
The application shall be filed with the village clerk and forwarded by him to
the board for consideration. A person making application for an amusement
arcade operator's license in the manner set forth herein shall be issued a
license by the village clerk upon approval of said application by the village
board. All applications for licenses issued by this chapter shall be submitted
to the village board which shall have the power to grant or refuse any such
licenses.
No license shall be issued until the village board has investigated the
location wherein the machines or devices are proposed to be operated and has
determined that the proposed operation of machines or devices complies with all
the terms of this and other ordinances of the village. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-5: LICENSE FEES:
The amusement arcade operator's license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In
addition to the amusement arcade operator's license fee, there is hereby
imposed on every coin operated amusement device within the amusement arcade a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) per machine per annum. The same fee shall be
charged for every transfer of or replacement of any such machines. No proration
of the annual license fee or license fee for transfer of or replacement of any
such machine shall be made for periods of operation less than one year. (Ord.
510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE, RENEWALS:
The amusement arcade's license shall be for a twelve (12) month period
corresponding with the village fiscal year, commencing May 1 of each year. The
application for renewal of such a license must be submitted forty (40) days
prior to May 1 for investigation and/or review. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Transfer Of License: The license required and described in this chapter
shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not constitute property. It is
not transferable in any manner.
   B.   License To Be Posted: Every amusement arcade licensee under this
chapter shall have its license posted on the premises in plain view.
   C.   Attendant On Duty: There shall be provided a full time attendant over
the age of eighteen (18) years upon the premises of an amusement arcade during
the normal business hours. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-8: GAMBLING:
   A.   No amusement arcade license shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of conducting gambling activities or to any corporation or
partnership, a member or principal shareholder of which has been convicted of
conducting gambling activities.
   B.   No gambling activities shall be conducted on the premises of amusement
arcades licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-9: MINORS:
It shall be unlawful to permit a minor under seventeen (17) years of age on the
premises during the state of Illinois curfew hours 1  without the supervision
of a parent or legal guardian unless accompanied by an adult over eighteen (18)
years of age and with the expressed written permission of that minor's parent
or legal guardian. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 555/1; see also section
  5-2-4 of this code.
3-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Operations: No coin operated amusement device or coin operated
musical device shall be operated within an amusement arcade so as to constitute
a nuisance.
   B.   Prohibited Machines: No licensed coin operated amusement device may
award more than ten (10) free replays at any time or be equipped with a
"knockoff" switch allowing for the automatic termination of accumulated free
plays.
   C.   Sale Or Consumption Of Intoxicants: No sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages, drugs or cannabis shall be permitted on the amusement premises.
(Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
3-2-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority Of Village President: The village president shall have the
right to revoke any license issued hereunder for the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984)
   B.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the village president has so acted,
the president shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or
not the license should be revoked.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of such license
shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date for
the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation. (1987 Code)
3-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person operating an amusement arcade in violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 510, 12-3-1984; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-3A-1: License Required
3-3A-2: Application For License
3-3A-3: License Fees
3-3A-4: Conditions Of License
3-3A-5: Fraud
3-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hawk or peddle any goods, wares or merchandise within the
corporate limits of the village without having a license so to do as herein
provided. (Ord. 242, 6-17-1920)
3-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person may obtain a license to hawk or peddle in the village upon making
written application therefor as required by ordinance, and stating specifically
in said application the article or articles to be sold and the proposed manner
of selling the same, and upon paying in advance into the village treasury the
license fee or fees herein required. (Ord. 242, 6-17-1920)
3-3A-3: LICENSE FEES:
No license shall be issued to any person to hawk or peddle any of the following
items in the village until the following fees for such license shall have been
paid:
Dry goods, clothing, hardware, furniture, musical instruments,  $10.00 per day
bicycles, tricycles or velocipedes or automobile accessories
                                                                 
Stationery, pictures or books of any kind                       8.00 per day
                                                                 
Furs, fur coats, fur clothing, fur robes or any articles of any 15.00 per day
make or kind of fur
                                                                 
Gold or silver or plated ware of any kind, or jewelry of any    12.00 per day
kind
                                                                 
Goods, wares or merchandise or other things not above
enumerated, except meats, fish, bread or pastry, oil or         6.00 per day
gasoline, fruit, vegetables, milk or cream
 
(Ord. 242, 6-17-1920)
3-3A-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Generally: Any person having obtained a license to hawk or peddle in
the village who shall sell or hawk any article or anything not mentioned in his
license and application, or who shall vex, annoy or harass any person by
importuning such person to look at his goods or harass any person by entering
any private house without being invited to do so, or who shall obstruct or
interfere with the traffic or travel on any of the public streets or highways
within the village shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Peddling On Sunday: No person shall hawk or peddle any goods, wares or
merchandise within the limits of the village on Sunday. (Ord. 242, 6-17-1920)
3-3A-5: FRAUD:
Any licensed hawker or peddler who shall be guilty of any fraud or
misrepresentation or imposition shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 242, 6-17-1920)
ARTICLE B. SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3B-1: License Required And Fees; Exemptions From Provisions
3-3B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED AND FEES; EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to sell, offer or expose for
sale by going from house to house or in the streets of the village in the near
vicinity of any such house, any goods, wares or merchandise except milk,
butter, fruits or vegetables, or to solicit orders for any such goods, wares or
merchandise at any such house in the village without first having obtained from
the village clerk a license so to do, which license shall be so issued to any
such applicant upon the payment first to the village treasurer of the sum of
five dollars ($5.00) for each day of the period covered by such license. Said
license shall be issued over the signature of the clerk and the seal of the
village, upon proper forms therefor to be supplied by the village.
Provided, however, that this article shall not be held to apply to the
soliciting of orders by any person engaged in business in the village and in
the usual course of the business of such person, nor to soliciting from persons
engaged in business in the village by the regular representatives of any person
engaged in business elsewhere, such representatives being of the kind commonly
known as "commercial travelers"; nor to persons soliciting orders for goods,
wares or merchandise to be sent to the purchaser from any place outside of the
state of Illinois; nor to those persons who by the state of Illinois, as
discharged sailors or soldiers, are entitled to the issuance of a license
without fee therefor from the village for the vending, distributing, hawking
and peddling of goods, wares and merchandise for himself only. (Ord. 292, 7-6-
1931)
ARTICLE C. TRANSIENT VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: License Required
3-3C-3: Application For License, Issuance
3-3C-4: License Fees
3-3C-5: Unauthorized Vending, Soliciting Or Peddling
3-3C-6: Report Of Vending, Soliciting Or Peddling
3-3C-7: Revocation Of License
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them:
PERSON: Shall include any corporation or partnership of two (2) or more persons
having a joint or common interest.
TRANSIENT VENDOR, TRANSIENT SOLICITOR TRANSIENT PEDDLER: Any person, firm,
association or corporation engaging temporarily in a retail or wholesale sale
of goods, wares and/or merchandise in any place in this village and who, for
the purpose of conducting such business, occupies a lot, building, room or
structure of any kind. Such terms shall not be construed to apply to any person
selling goods, wares or merchandise of any description raised, produced or
manufactured by the individual offering the same for sale, nor to persons
handling vegetables, fruits or perishable farm products at any established
village market, nor to persons operating stores or refreshment stands at
resorts or having booths on or adjacent to the property owned or occupied by
them nor to any stands or any fairgrounds. (Ord. 377, 12-6-1954; amd. Ord. 439,
8-6-1971)
3-3C-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, either as principal or agent, shall engage in the business as a
transient vendor, transient solicitor or transient peddler within the village
without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 377, 12-6-
1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
3-3C-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to act as a transient vendor, transient solicitor or
transient peddler within the village shall make written application to the
village clerk, giving the following information:
   A.   Name of applicant.
   B.   Residence of applicant.
   C.   Address at which applicant last engaged in business.
   D.   Name and address of firms, if any, which applicant represents.
   E.   Kind of goods, wares and merchandise which applicant proposes to sell.
   F.   The address and location at which the business will be conducted.
   G.   A statement of the facts, if any, to be advertised or represented in
connection with the sale of merchandise.
   H.   The length of time for which the license is required.
Upon the receipt by the village clerk of a correct application for a license
and the payment to the village clerk of the license fee hereinafter fixed, said
clerk shall issue the license. (Ord. 377, 12-6-1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
3-3C-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee to be paid by an applicant for a transient vendor's, transient
solicitor's or transient peddler's license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day. (Ord. 377, 12-6-1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
3-3C-5: UNAUTHORIZED VENDING, SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
Any person required by this article to be licensed as a transient vendor,
transient solicitor or transient peddler, who shall engage in business as same
in the village without first obtaining a license as herein required, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 377, 12-6-1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
3-3C-6: REPORT OF VENDING, SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
The owner, proprietor, manager or agent of any land or building which shall be
rented or engaged by a transient vendor, transient solicitor or transient
peddler shall report to the village clerk, within six (6) hours after such
renting, the name of the transient vendor renting or engaging the same. (Ord.
377, 12-6-1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
3-3C-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The village president shall have the right to revoke any license issued under
this article if he shall be satisfied that the goods, wares or merchandise sold
or offered for sale by the licensee are not in accordance with the
representations made by the licensee to induce sales thereof 1 . (Ord. 377, 12-
6-1954; amd. Ord. 439, 8-6-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2-11 of this title for hearing procedure.
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose And Construction
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-4-4: Licenses Required
3-4-5: Filing Of Application For License
3-4-6: Restrictions On Licenses
3-4-7: Classification Of Licenses, Number And Fees
3-4-8: Hours Of Sale Restricted
3-4-9: Unlawful Sales
3-4-10: Restrictions Of Persons Of Nonage
3-4-11: Inspection Of Premises
3-4-12: Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the village shall be protected and the
temperance in the consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be fostered by sound
and careful control and regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages and
alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less, of alcohol by volume. This chapter shall not apply to wine
intended for use and used by any church or religious organization for
sacramental purposes.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, and porter and the like.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substance.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as herein defined.
(Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   The mayor shall be the local liquor control commissioner and shall be
charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of this chapter
and such other provisions of this code relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted. He may appoint a person to assist him in the exercise of the powers
and the performance of the duties herein provided for the local liquor control
commissioner.
   B.   The local liquor control commissioner, with the approval of a majority
of the village board, may adopt rules and regulations for the hearings to
determine whether any license should be suspended, terminated or revoked.
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner shall have all the powers as
provided by the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-4: LICENSES REQUIRED:
No person shall, within this village, sell, keep or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor without having a valid license to do so, issued in pursuance
of the provisions of this chapter. No license shall be issued without the
approval of the local liquor control commissioner, who, by virtue of his
office, is the mayor of the village. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-5: FILING OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   In addition to any other requirements contained in an application for
liquor license, an applicant for a liquor license or renewal thereof shall
include the following information:
      1.   The location for which the license is sought.
      2.   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental arrangement or other
written authority for the use of the location if the applicant is not the owner
of said location.
      3.   Certificate of insurance showing the evidence of dram shop insurance
coverage.
      4.   Certificate of insurance evidencing public liability insurance in an
amount not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) to any one person or
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one accident.
   B.   All licenses issued hereunder shall be issued by the mayor and attested
to by the clerk under the corporate seal. No license shall issue until the
application therefor shall have been approved by the local liquor control
commissioner. All applications for licenses shall remain on file in the office
of the clerk to be listed in a record to be kept for this purpose.
   C.   Application for a license or renewal of license shall be made to the
mayor on application blanks furnished to the village clerk. Such applications
shall contain sufficient information to enable the mayor to determine the
eligibility of the applicant for such license. Each application for renewal of
a license issued under this chapter shall be filed with the village clerk by
March 1 of each year. Each application for license or renewal shall be
accompanied by the payment of the annual fee prorated on a monthly basis from
the date of filing the application to March 1 next succeeding the filing of
application. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-6: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
   A.   Location:
      1.   No liquor license shall be issued to any person or for any location
where the issuance of the same is prohibited by the statutes of the state of
Illinois.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for
the aged or indigent persons or for veterans.
   B.   Zoning: No license shall be issued to any premises unless the sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor at such premises complies with the applicable
zoning ordinance or ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES, NUMBER AND FEES:
Licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A:
      1.   A Class A license shall be issued to a "restaurant" as defined in
this chapter and shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises where sold as well as other retail sales of alcoholic liquor.
      2.   Class A licenses shall not exceed two (2) in number. (Ord. 519, 1-5-
1987)
      3.   The annual fee for a Class A license shall be eight hundred dollars
($800.00). (Ord. 630-03, 2-10-2003)
   B.   Class B:
      1.   A Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other retail sales of
alcoholic liquor.
      2.   Class B licenses shall not exceed two (2) in number. (Ord. 519, 1-5-
1987)
      3.   The annual fee for a Class B license shall be eight hundred dollars
($800.00). (Ord. 630-03, 2-10-2003)
   C.   Class C:
      1.   A Class C license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption off the premises only and issued to those establishments commonly
known as package liquor stores.
      2.   Class C licenses shall not exceed two (2) in number. (Ord. 519, 1-5-
1987)
      3.   The annual fee for a Class C license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). (Ord. 740-14, 4-14-2014)
   D.   Temporary License:
      1.   Purpose: A temporary license may be issued for a limited period of
time for the purpose of allowing the licensee to raise funds for charitable,
educational or civic purposes.
      2.   Term Of License: A temporary license may be issued for a period not
to exceed one (1) calendar day and shall be subject to the provisions of
subsections 3-4-6A2 and B, and section
3-4-8 of this chapter regarding time of sale, unless the Liquor Commissioner
further restricts the time of sale. Sunday sales shall not be allowed.
      3.   Application: In addition to any other requirements contained in an
application for liquor license, the applicant for a temporary license shall
include the following information:
         a.   The location for which the temporary license is sought.
         b.   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental agreement or other
written authority for the use of the location if the applicant is not the owner
of said location.
         c.   A statement setting forth the purpose for the issuance of said
license.
         d.   A statement setting forth the applicant's arrangements for crowd
control.
         e.   Certificate of insurance showing evidence of dramshop and
liability insurance coverage.
         f.   A request for a specific time and date for the term of said
license.
      4.   Fees: The fee for the temporary license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each calendar day or part thereof for which the license is issued
and shall be paid in full at the time the license is issued. (Ord. 519, 1-5-
1987)
3-4-8: HOURS OF SALE RESTRICTED:
   It is the intention of the Village Board that this section control the times
that alcoholic liquor may be sold or dispensed. As such, no alcoholic liquor
shall be sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given away upon or about
any licensed premises by anyone at any time except for those times permitted in
this section.
   A.   General Restrictions And Time Of Sale: No alcoholic liquor shall be
sold, delivered, transferred, distributed or given away upon or about any
licensed premises by anyone except during the following periods of time on the
following days:
      1.   For Classes A and B, on the days of Monday through Saturday from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) AM. the following day. And on Sunday
from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and again on
Sunday from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   For Class C licenses, on the days of Monday through Saturday from
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. And on Sunday from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
      3.   For Classes A and B, on New Year's Day from twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. in addition to other hours allowed
unless New Year's Day is on Monday, in which case the normal operating hours
shall not be extended because of the New Year holiday.
   B.   No person other than a licensee or an employee of a licensee shall
remain upon any licensed premises for any period of time longer than one-half
(1/2) hour following the times specified in this section as the time when the
sale, distribution, transfer or gift of alcoholic liquor must terminate. No
person, including a licensee or any employee of a licensee, shall remain upon
any licensed premises for any period of time longer than one (1) hour following
the time specified in this section as the time when the sale, distribution,
transfer or gift of alcoholic liquor must terminate. No licensee, employee or
agent of the licensee shall permit any person to remain on the licensed
premises beyond the closing hours specified in this section. Persons and
premises having Class A or C licenses may remain open other than the times
designated in this section but only for the sale of food, beverages or items
other than alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987; amd. Ord. 740A-14, 4-14-2014;
Ord. 776-20, 5-13-2019)
3-4-9: UNLAWFUL SALES:
   A.   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person
or to any person known to him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person,
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, should sell, give or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one
(21) except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service and under the
conditions of subsection D of this section.
   B.   Any licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written
evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty
one (21) years. For the purpose of this subsection, adequate written evidence
of age and identity of the person is a document issued by a Federal, State,
County or Municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including,
but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a registration
certificate issued under the Federal Selective Service Act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.
   C.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such a sale
or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
   D.   This section does not apply to the possession, dispensation or
consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons participating in the performance
of a religious ceremony nor to minors consuming alcoholic beverages under the
direct supervision and approval of a parent of such minor in the privacy of the
minor's home. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-10: RESTRICTIONS OF PERSONS OF NONAGE:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall purchase, attempt to
purchase or consume alcoholic liquor in a licensed premises. At premises having
class B licenses, no person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall remain
in or around the licensed premises. No licensee to whom is issued a class B
license or employee or agent of a class B licensee shall allow any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in, on or around the licensed
premises.
For classes A and C only, persons sixteen (16) years or older may be employed
by a licensee for the purposes of cleaning, cooking, bussing or any duty not
involving the sale, delivery or distribution of alcoholic liquor. However, no
person under the age of twenty one (21) years may sell, distribute or pour
alcoholic beverages or be employed to sell, distribute or pour alcoholic
beverages as a bartender, clerk, waiter, waitress or salesperson. (Ord. 519, 1-
5-1987)
3-4-11: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The mayor, village board, chief of police, and all members of the police force
may enter and inspect the premises of each licensee hereunder, or any adjacent
premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his agent, at any time, and
they may take possession of and remove any intoxicating liquors found upon the
premises in violation of any provision of this chapter and refusal by the
licensee to permit such action shall constitute sufficient ground for the
immediate suspension or revocation of the license by the local liquor control
commissioner. (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
3-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, on
conviction, be fined as provided in a sum not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and
may, in addition to such fine, have his or her said license suspended or
revoked by the local liquor control commissioner 1 . (Ord. 519, 1-5-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2-11 of this title for hearing procedure.
CHAPTER 5
YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Yard Sales Defined
3-5-2: Permit Requirements
3-5-3: Permit Fees
3-5-4: Penalties
3-5-1: YARD SALES DEFINED:
Included within the terms of this chapter, and heretofore referred to as "yard
sales" is any display of merchandise for the purpose of exchanging it for legal
tender or barter at a location not otherwise regularly used or specifically
designated for the sale or exchange of merchandise. Events commonly known as
"garage sales", "tailgate sales", "flea markets", "rummage sales", "house
sales", "moving sales", etc., shall be defined as yard sales under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 612, 5-14-2001)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Permits shall only be required for those yard sales being held on Thursday,
Friday, Saturday and Sunday of Franklin Grove Summer Harvest Festival weekend.
Each day of a yard sale shall constitute a separate permitted day for permit
purposes. (Ord. 619-02, 4-8-2002)
3-5-3: PERMIT FEES:
A permit fee shall be set by the village board and must be paid before a permit
is issued. A permit may be secured from the village clerk or his or her
designee on or before the day the yard sale is to be held. (Ord. 703-10, 4-12-
2010)
3-5-4: PENALTIES:
Violators will be issued a twenty five dollar ($25.00) citation to be paid to
the village clerk within ten (10) days. If the fine is not paid within the ten
(10) day period, charges will be brought for penalties according to general
fines as provided in section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord. 612, 5-14-2001)
CHAPTER 6
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Tax Imposed
3-6-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-6-4: Returns To Department
3-6-5: Resellers
3-6-6: Severability
3-6-7: Effective Date
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate
interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
      1.   The tax imposed by this chapter,
      2.   The tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act,
      3.   The tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code,
      4.   911 surcharges, or
      5.   Charges added to customers' bills pursuant to the provisions of
section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public utilities act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers' bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the Illinois commerce commission for the purpose of recovering
any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of
the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a timesharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that the
charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between
wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the corporations
and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this act. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this chapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement this
act. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 627-
02, 9-9-2002)
3-6-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect on January 1, 2003. Copies of the ordinance
codified herein shall be certified and sent to the Illinois department of
revenue prior to October 1, 2002. (Ord. 627-02, 9-9-2002)
CHAPTER 7
LICENSED VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-7-1: Licensed Video Gaming Exemption
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Video Gaming Establishment License
3-7-4: Video Gaming Terminal Permit Sticker
3-7-5: Regulations Governing Licensed Establishments Operating Video Gaming
Terminals
3-7-6: Inspection Of Premises
3-7-7: Revocation/Suspension Of License And Permit Stickers
3-7-8: Seizure Of Unlawful Video Gaming Terminals
3-7-9: Penalty
3-7-1: LICENSED VIDEO GAMING EXEMPTION:
The prohibitions of this chapter, and any other section of this Code that
references or governs gambling or gaming, shall not apply to any video gaming
terminal that has a valid video gaming terminal permit sticker and is being
operated by a licensed establishment that has a valid Village video gaming
establishment license and is in full compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 759-
17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment that is both licensed to sell liquor
at retail in the Village pursuant to this Code and is licensed by the Illinois
Gaming Board to operate a video gaming terminal on its premises.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video
display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or
credits that can be redeemed for cash. This term does not include a machine
that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes
only. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-3: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
In order for a licensed establishment to operate a video gaming terminal, the
licensed establishment is required to obtain a video gaming establishment
license from the Village by submitting a written application, on a form
provided by the Village, to the Village President or other party designated by
him. The burden is upon each applying licensed establishment to demonstrate its
suitability for licensure. All video gaming establishment licenses issued by
the Village shall expire on the next occurring December 31st of each year. A
license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for a time period not to
exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided by law, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be transferable or alienable. (Ord.
759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-4: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL PERMIT STICKER:
In order for a video gaming terminal to be operated at a licensed
establishment, the licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video
gaming terminal permit sticker from the Village for each video gaming terminal
located on its premises by submitting a written application, on a form provided
by the Village, to the Village President or other party designated by him. Each
video gaming terminal permit sticker issued by the Village shall expire on the
next occurring December 31st, with an annual fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per video gaming terminal, payable in full at the time the application
is filed with the Village. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-5: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS OPERATING VIDEO GAMING
TERMINALS:
The following regulations shall apply to all licensed establishments operating
a video gaming terminal on its premises with a valid gaming establishment
license and valid video gaming terminal permit stickers for each of its video
gaming terminals:
   A.   A valid Village video gaming establishment license must be clearly
displayed at all times.
   B.   A valid Village video gaming terminal permit sticker shall be clearly
displayed at all times on each video gaming terminal.
   C.   No more than six (6) video gaming terminals may be located on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   D.   Other than being allowed to have no more than six (6) video gaming
terminals with valid video gaming terminal permit stickers as provided herein,
a licensed establishment is prohibited from having on its premises an
electronic video gaming machine that may be available to play or simulate the
play of poker, line up, blackjack, faro, roulette, craps, slots, or any other
card or dice game or other game of chance, or that is otherwise akin to a
gambling or gaming device, even if solely for amusement or entertainment
purposes.
   E.   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. The entrance to such area must,
at all times, be within the view of at least one employee who is at least
twenty one (21) years of age.
   F.   No licensed establishment may cause or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to use, play, or operate a video gaming terminal.
   G.   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours of
operation allowed for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages at the
licensed establishment pursuant to this Code.
   H.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and all rules,
regulations, and restrictions imposed by the Illinois Gaming Board.
   I.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with all provisions of
this Code as well as Federal and State laws and regulations. (Ord. 759-17, 7-
10-2017; amd. Ord. 777-21, 6-14-2021)
3-7-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Every licensed establishment where a video gaming terminal is kept shall be
subject to inspection by the Village Liquor Control Commissioner or his
authorized designee, at any time, to ensure compliance with applicable
ordinances. This includes licensed establishments applying for a video gaming
establishment license and/or video gaming terminal permit sticker. It shall be
unlawful for any person to hinder, resist, oppose, or attempt to hinder,
resist, or oppose the Liquor Control Commissioner or his respective agents and
designees in the course of an inspection. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-7: REVOCATION/SUSPENSION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT STICKERS:
The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any video gaming
establishment license and any video gaming terminal permit sticker issued by
the Village if he determines that the licensed establishment has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter. No license shall be so revoked or suspended,
except after a public hearing before the Liquor Control Commissioner, with a
three (3) day written notice to the licensed establishment that affords the
licensed establishment an opportunity to appear and defend. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any licensed establishment that has its liquor license revoked or
suspended by the Village pursuant to this Code or by the Illinois State Liquor
Commission, or has its video gaming license revoked or suspended by the
Illinois Gaming Board, shall automatically, without a hearing before the Liquor
Control Commissioner, have its Village video gaming establishment license and
all Village video gaming terminal permit stickers revoked or suspended for the
same time frame as its liquor and/or Illinois Gaming Board gaming license is
suspended, whichever the case may be. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-8: SEIZURE OF UNLAWFUL VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
Every video gaming terminal that does not have a valid video gaming terminal
permit sticker or is otherwise unlawful, shall be considered a gambling device
subject to seizure and shall be turned over to the Illinois Gaming Board, in
accordance with board regulations and applicable law, unless otherwise ordered
by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
3-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of no less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first
offense in any twelve (12) month period, and a fine of not less than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a second offense and each subsequent
offense within a twelve (12) month period. This penalty may be enforced by
issuance of a violation for the fine amount. This penalty shall be in addition
to any and all other remedies which may be available to the Village under this
Code or any other provision of Federal or State law. Each day any violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 759-17, 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 8
RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Title
3-8-2: Purpose
3-8-3: Construction And Definitions
3-8-4: License Required
3-8-5: Application For License; Fee
3-8-6: License Qualifications
3-8-7: License Issuance
3-8-8: Conduct Of Raffles
3-8-9: Manager; Bonds
3-8-10:
 Records
3-8-11: Penalty; Abatement
3-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Franklin Grove
Raffle and Poker Runs Ordinance. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the conduct of raffles
and poker runs within the borders of the village. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to authorize the conducting or operating of any gambling scheme,
enterprise, activity, or device other than raffles and poker runs as provided
for herein. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-3: CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the definitions hereunder shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   Words in the present tense shall include the future tense; words used
in the singular number shall include the plural number; words used in the
masculine gender shall include the feminine gender; and such inclusive words
shall be reciprocal.
   B.   The word “may” is permissive or discretionary.
   C.   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.   Words not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with their
commonly held meanings.
      For the purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases listed hereunder
have the meanings designated herein, except when a particular context clearly
requires a different meaning.
KEY LOCATION: for a Poker Run, the location where it concludes and the prizes are awarded; for
              a Raffle, the location where the winning chances are determined.
LICENSEE:     An organization that has been issued a license to operate a raffle or poker run.
              The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums expended for prizes,
NET PROCEEDS: local license fees and other reasonable operating expenses incurred as a result
              of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT:    Organized, operated, and conducted on a not for profit basis with no personal
              profit inuring to anyone as a result of such operation.
ONGOING       A raffle in which there is one sale of chances before an initial drawing date:
RAFFLE:       thereafter, the chances shall be valid at subsequent drawings in the same raffle.
ORGANIZATION, An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an indefinite
CHARITABLE:   number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for benefits must
              also confer some benefit upon the public.
              An organization or institution organized and operated to provide systematic
ORGANIZATION, instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to schools and
EDUCATIONAL:  institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and intensity
              with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
              An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary interest of
ORGANIZATION, which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide assistance to
FRATERNAL:    the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of government by caring
              for those who otherwise would be cared for by the government.
ORGANIZATION, An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of betterment of
LABOR:        the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit in the development of a higher
              degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
ORGANIZATION, Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the purpose of
RELIGIOUS:    religious worship.
              An organization or association comprised of members of which substantially all
ORGANIZATION, are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, the
VETERANS:     primary purpose of which is to promote assistance to the general public in such a
              way as to confer a public benefit.
PERSON:       An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation, government;
              partnership, or unincorporated association.
              An event organized by an organization licensed under this chapter in which
              participants travel to multiple predetermined locations, including a key
POKER RUN:    location, drawing a playing card or equivalent item at each location, in order to
              assemble a facsimile of a poker hand or other numeric score. “Poker Run” includes
              dice runs, marble runs, or other events where the objective is to build the best
              hand or highest score by obtaining an item at each location.
RAFFLE:       A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2(b),
              conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
              A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance represented
             and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by some other
              means, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning chance;
              B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some other
             method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
              persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning chance
              shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting contest.
VILLAGE:      The Village of Franklin Grove, Illinois.
VILLAGE       The Village Board of the Village of Franklin Grove, Illinois. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-
BOARD:        2022)
 
3-8-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a Raffle, or to
sell, offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on
a Raffle or conduct or operate a Poker Run unless conducted pursuant to a
license duly issued by the Village and in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Any person seeking to conduct or operate a
Raffle or Poker Run shall file an application with the Village. The written
application, on a form provided by the Village, shall be given to the Village
President or other party designated by the President. Such application shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address, and type of organization.
      2.   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation.
      3.   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the Raffle or Poker Run.
      4.   The value of each monetary prize to be awarded in the Raffle.
      5.   The maximum price charged for each Raffle chance issued or sold.
      6.   The maximum number of Raffle chances to be issued.
      7.   The area or areas in which Raffle chances will be sold or issued.
      8.   The time period during which Raffle chances will be issued or sold.
      9.   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined.
      10.   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary of that
organization.
      11.   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   B.   Fees: Any raffle in which the aggregate value of the prizes is less
than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) shall be considered automatically licensed
without necessity of application; however, a license shall be issued and
displayed at the location at which winning chances will be determined. In the
event the prize exceeds Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), according to the
required reports (section 10-C), a Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) fee shall be
charged by the Village and paid to the Village Clerk at the time of the
required report to the Village Board.
      A Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) application fee shall be charged by the
Village for any Raffle with an aggregate value over Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) and all Poker Runs that will be paid to the Village Clerk at the time
of application.
   C.   Fees Nonrefundable: Said application fees are nonrefundable, even
should the application be rejected by the Village President or other party
designated by him. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-6: LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Raffle or Poker Run licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
charitable, educational, fraternal, labor, religious, and veterans’
organizations that:
      1.   Operate without profit to their members,
      2.   Have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years
or more immediately before making application for a license, and
      3.   That have had, during that entire five (5) year period, a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out its objectives.
   B.   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection
B.1., B.2., or B.3. of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which such a person is active or employed; or
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B.1., B.2.,
or B.3. of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
Raffle or Poker Run as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-7: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Review Applications; Acceptance or Rejection: The Village President, or
other party designated by him, shall review all Raffle and/or Poker Run license
applications. The Village President, or other party designated by him, shall,
within thirty (30) days of the application, accept or reject a Raffle or Poker
Run license application. If an application is accepted, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith issue a Raffle or Poker Run license to the applicant.
   B.   License Provisions Shown: A Raffle license shall show the following:
      1.   The area or areas in which Raffle chances may be sold or issued;
      2.   The period of time during which such Raffle chances may be sold or
issued;
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each Raffle chance issued
or sold; and
      4.   The date, time, and location on or at which winning chances will be
determined.
   C.   Display Of License: Said license shall be prominently displayed at the
time and location of the determination of the winning chances.
   D.   Validity Of License: A license shall be valid for one event only;
however, multiple licenses may be issued for multiple events to a licensee
during a twelve (12) month period.
   E.   License Authorization: A license shall authorize the holder of such
license to sell Raffle chances throughout the State, including beyond the
borders of the licensing municipality.
   F.   Coverage of Poker Run License: Poker Run licenses cover the entire
Poker Run, including locations other than the key location. Each license issued
shall include the name and address of each predetermined location. (Ord. 781-
22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-8: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The operation and conduct of Raffles are subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Disposition Of Proceeds: The entire net proceeds of any Raffle must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to
conduct that game.
   B.   Participation By Members: No person except a bona fide member of the
sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of the
Raffle.
   C.   Profit Prohibited: No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the Raffle.
   D.   Renting Premises: A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine
the winning chance or chances in a Raffle only from an organization that is
also licensed under this chapter.
   E.   Sale of Chances: Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale,
conveyed, issued otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified
on the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   F.   Information Shown on Chances:
      1.   Each Raffle chance shall have printed thereon the following:
         a.   The cost of said chance;
         b.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in said
Raffle;
         c.   The maximum number of Raffle chances to be issued; and
         d.   The date(s{'}'}, time(s{'}'}, and location(s) on or at which
winning chances will be determined.
      2.   If Raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued, or otherwise
transferred at the time and location at which winning chances will be
determined only, and only if being sold, conveyed, issued, or otherwise
transferred to persons then in attendance, the face of the Raffle chance need
not contain such information as provided in F. above.
   G.   Real Property as Prize: No real property, including land nor any
buildings thereon, may be the prize in a Raffle, unless the organization
holding the Raffle license owns clear title as to the entire subject real
property.
   H.   Underage Persons Restricted:
   I.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of Raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   J.   No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value to or by any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years without the permission of his parent or guardian. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any person may make a gift of a chance to any person of any age.
(Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-9: MANAGER: BONDS:
   A.   Supervision: All operation of and the conduct of Raffles and/or Poker
Runs shall be under the supervision of a single Raffles or Poker Run manager
designated by the organization.
   B.   Bonds Required:
      1.   Manager: The Raffle manager shall give a fidelity bond, equal in
amount to the aggregate retail and/or monetary value of all prizes to be
awarded, in favor of the licensee, conditioned upon his or her honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than thirty (30)
days prior to its cancellation.
      2.   Bond Waiver Provision: The required fidelity bond may be waived if
the organization provides proof of a unanimous vote to waive the fidelity bond.
(Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-10: RECORDS:
   A.   Gross Receipts: Each licensee shall keep records of the gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which
winning chances are to be determined. All deductions from gross receipts for
each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other
records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service
or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net
proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Separate Records: Gross receipts from the operation of Raffle programs
shall be segregated from the other revenues of the licensee, including bingo
gross receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization pursuant to license there for issued by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall
have separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Report To Membership: Each licensee shall report within thirty (30)
days after the conclusion of each Raffle to its membership, and to the Village
Board, its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds for Raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required herein.
   D.   Preservation Of Records: Records required shall be preserved for three
(3) years, and licensees shall make available their records relating to
operation of Raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
3-8-11: PENALTY; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Violation: Failure to comply with this ordinance shall constitute a
violation. Any person, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) per offense. Each day on which a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Each member of the sponsoring
organization shall be jointly and severally liable with the organization, and
with each other, for any violation.
   B.   Abatement: The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the state’s attorney from instituting appropriate action to prevent
unlawful raffles or to restrain. (Ord. 781-22, 5-9-2022)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Open Burning
4-1-2: Littering
4-1-3: Addition Of Fluoride To Village Water Supply
4-1-4: Hazards Mitigation Plan
4-1-1: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   The intentional burning of any material including any garbage, refuse,
or waste, is prohibited except as specifically provided herein.
   B.   Burning of leaves and twigs is permitted from March 15 to May 15 and
from September 15 to November 30 of each year, inclusive, provided:
      1.   Such burning must be on private property and shall not be on any
public street, alley or sidewalk.
      2.   Such burning shall only be from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      3.   Such burning must be attended by a responsible person.
   C.   Recreational fires shall be permitted when all of the following
conditions are met:
      1.   Grills, cooking pits, smokers, and other cooking devices are exempt
from time restrictions.
      2.   The base of the fire is fully contained in a fireproof containment
device including, but not limited to, a fire pit, steel ring, grill, etc., not
to exceed sixty inches (60") in diameter. After nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. the
fire should be fully contained in a fireproof containment device including, but
not limited to, a fire pit, steel ring, grill, etc., not to exceed thirty six
inches (36") in diameter.
      3.   Combustible fuels are limited to clean, dry, untreated, unpainted
woods.
      4.   Fires shall not be allowed to smolder and/or emit noxious or
offensive odors at any time.
      5.   Fires shall be attended at all times and when extinguished they
should be cool to the touch on the exterior three inches (3").
      6.   Accelerants not specifically designed for igniting recreational
fires may not be used to ignite recreational fires.
      7.   Fires must be maintained a reasonable distance from structures,
vegetation and other combustibles.
      8.   Fires must be extinguished immediately upon the direction of a law
enforcement officer or at the direction of the fire chief.
   D.   Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 718-11,
11-11-2011)
4-1-2: LITTERING:
No person shall throw, place, leave or permit to be thrown, placed or left, any
litter, trash, filth, garbage or rubbish in or upon any street, alley or
sidewalk of this village. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 451, 10-1-1973)
4-1-3: ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY:
Upon receiving the approval of the state department of public health and until
further direction of the village board, the sewer and water committee is hereby
authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the addition
of approximately one and not more than one and two-tenths (1.2) parts of
fluoride to every million (1,000,000) parts of water being distributed in the
water supply system of the village. (Ord., 2-1-1960)
4-1-4: HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN:
The village of Franklin Grove hereby adopts the Lee County multijurisdictional
all hazards mitigation plan as the official hazard mitigation plan of the
village of Franklin Grove. (Ord., 8-8-2011)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: Refuse Storage Regulations
4-2-3: Collection Schedule
4-2-4: Collection Fees
4-2-5: Bills For Service, Delinquencies
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, a "unit" shall be a residence, an apartment
or a business. (Ord. 504, 11-7-1983)
4-2-2: REFUSE STORAGE REGULATIONS:
Any person using or occupying a building, house or structure within the village
shall provide and maintain in good order and repair garbage or trash
receptacles of sufficient number to contain the garbage or trash that will
accumulate on the premises. (Ord. 504, 11-7-1983)
4-2-3: COLLECTION SCHEDULE:
Each unit shall receive garbage and refuse removal for two (2) containers not
over thirty (30) gallons' capacity each, twice weekly. (Ord. 504, 11-7-1983)
   A.   Collection Requirement: Garbage and refuse containers shall be taken to
the curbside and removed therefrom in a timely manner. No one shall place a
garbage or refuse container at the curbside more than sixteen (16) hours prior
to a scheduled pick up, nor shall anyone leave such containers at the curbside
longer than sixteen (16) hours after the pick up. Violation of this provision
shall result in a fine of no less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and no
more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Each day shall be a separate
offense. (Ord. 639-03, 11-10-2003)
4-2-4: COLLECTION FEES:
For every household or water and/or sewer customer within the village of
Franklin Grove, the charge for collection of garbage is forty dollars ($40.00)
per calendar quarter. (Ord. 702-10, 1-11-2010, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2010)
4-2-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE, DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills, Payment:
      1.   The refuse fees shall be included with the water bill 1  to each
water user quarterly, and the village clerk is directed not to accept payment
of the water bill unless such payment is in the total amount billed, which
shall include the refuse fee as herein provided.
      2.   Owners or occupants of the premises which do not use village water
shall be billed quarterly by separate billing for the refuse fee for their
premises.
      3.   All accounts due are subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) if
not paid on or before the expiration of the past due date shown on the bill.
   B.   Delinquencies In Payments, Disconnection Of Water Service: The charges
fixed in section
4-2-4 of this chapter for the collection, removal and disposal of all garbage
or trash shall be entered in their respective amounts as charges against each
owner of the unit, and the amount so fixed and charged shall be collected
quarterly in connection with and as a part of the water bill of the village.
Should any owner fail or refuse to pay the charges fixed against him and his
unit when due, the village shall have the right to disconnect water service to
the unit against which such garbage or trash collection fees and water charges
have been fixed and assessed. Prior to disconnection, the village shall serve
notice upon the owner of the unit and upon any occupants that, unless the
charges are paid within forty (40) days from the date of the original bill, the
water service to said unit shall be disconnected. (Ord. 504, 11-7-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-2D-4 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Weeds Declared A Nuisance
4-3-2: Height Restrictions
4-3-3: Notice To Remove
4-3-4: Abatement
4-3-5: Weed Cutting Lien
4-3-6: Foreclosure Of Lien
4-3-1: WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds
of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (Ord. 444, 8-7-1972)
4-3-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding twelve inches (12") anywhere in the village. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 444, 8-7-
1972)
4-3-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
It shall be the duty of the village police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to demand
the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (Ord. 444, 8-7-1972)
4-3-4: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant. (Ord. 444, 8-7-1972)
4-3-5: WEED CUTTING LIEN:
Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. Whenever a
bill for such charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days after it has been
rendered, the clerk may file with the recorder of deeds of Lee County a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut,
and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
address is known. Provided, however, that failure of the clerk to record such
lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such
notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as
provided in the following section. (Ord. 444, 8-7-1972)
4-3-6: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
village.
The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 444, 8-7-1972)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisances Declared
4-4-2: Offense And Penalty
4-4-3: Summary Abatement
4-4-4: Nonsummary Abatement
4-4-5: Abatement Costs And Expenses
4-4-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
The following conditions, acts or conduct when permitted to exist by anyone or
are committed or performed by anyone on any public or private property within
the limits of the village are declared to be nuisances:
   A.   Any condition, act or conduct which is defined or recognized as a
nuisance according to the statutes or common law of the state.
   B.   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building any rubbish,
trash, refuse, junk, accumulated parts or material and any apparently
inoperable machinery, equipment or appliances, including, but not limited to,
stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers, microwaves, air conditioners, vehicle
parts, lawn mowers, inoperable playground equipment, and dilapidated animal
shelters.
   C.   To store, keep or maintain outside of an enclosed building or in the
general view of the public any motor vehicle which either is not currently
licensed by the state of Illinois or other state or country or is otherwise
inoperable, except such vehicles as may be located on a lot of a duly licensed
automobile dealer or mechanic. An "inoperable" motor vehicle shall include any
vehicle that appears incapable of being driven and has in fact not been driven
for a minimum of forty eight (48) hours.
   D.   To store, keep or maintain any material in a manner which may harbor
rats, mice, snakes or other vermin.
   E.   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation or
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health to persons residing in the
premises or residing in the proximity thereof, because of a fire hazard, lack
of repair, defects in the plumbing, lighting or ventilation, the existence of
disease or unsanitary condition, or any dwelling condemned by the county health
department.
   F.   To produce or permit to be produced whether on public or private
property any noise, including animal noise, sound or vibration that is
offensive or disturbing of the peace and quiet of any person in the vicinity or
of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
   G.   To produce or permit to be produced whether on public or private
property any offensive or noxious odor, including dense smoke, noxious fumes,
gas, soot or cinders that are either disturbing to any person in the vicinity
or otherwise a danger to public health.
   H.   To fail to remove from private property the carcass of any animal or
fowl within a reasonable time of the death of the animal or fowl.
   I.   To pollute any public or private well, cistern, stream, lake, canal,
spring, river, pond, or other body of water.
   J.   To permit the accumulation of stagnant water on private property. (Ord.
602-00, 8-14-2000)
   K.   A dumpster for the collection of trash, rubbish, garbage, used building
materials or for any other purpose placed in the front yard of any zoned
property within the village of Franklin Grove without a permit.
      1.   In the absence of a side yard or rear yard, or reasonable access to
such side or rear yard, the placement of a dumpster may be permitted for
collection of trash, rubbish, garbage, used building materials or for any other
lawful purpose in any zoned area within the village, if a permit is secured
from the zoning officer.
      2.   Permits shall not exceed seven (7) days, and may be renewed. Permits
for placement of a dumpster shall be issued at a cost of twenty five dollars
($25.00).
      3.   Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection K shall be
punished by a fine not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day the
violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 681-07, 7-9-
2007, eff. 8-1-2007)
4-4-2: OFFENSE AND PENALTY:
Any person, including any owner, occupant, lessee and agent in possession or
control of property, who allows, permits, performs or commits a nuisance or
otherwise fails to prevent a nuisance when the prevention of such is within his
control shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof such person
shall be subject to a fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that
a violation is found to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Any
abatement of the nuisance, subsequent to the commission of the offense, whether
summary or nonsummary, and whether performed by the person charged or by the
village, shall not constitute a defense. A conviction and fine pursuant to this
section does not prevent the village from seeking an abatement or any other
relief. (Ord. 602-00, 8-14-2000)
4-4-3: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
The village president may summarily order the police or other village official
or contracted private business to immediately abate a nuisance whenever it is
the opinion of the village president that the nuisance creates the imminent
threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to property. (Ord. 602-
00, 8-14-2000)
4-4-4: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   The village president or any police officer of the village may serve or
cause to be served a notice in writing upon any owner, occupant, lessee or
agent in possession or control of any real or personal property within the
limits of the village, or notice may be affixed to the property upon which a
nuisance exists; and the notice shall specifically state the nature of the
nuisance and shall inform the person so notified to abate the nuisance within a
specified time as may be reasonable.
   B.   If the person so notified does not abate the nuisance within the
specified time, the village president is authorized to:
      1.   Order village employees to remove the nuisance or to contract for
the private removal of the nuisance.
      2.   Authorize the village attorney to seek an injunction and other
relief of the continuation of the nuisance in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      3.   Seek such other and further relief as may be provided by law. (Ord.
602-00, 8-14-2000)
4-4-5: ABATEMENT COSTS AND EXPENSES:
All costs and expenses incurred in the abatement of a nuisance, whether summary
or nonsummary, and whether incurred by the village or any contracted private
business, shall be paid by the owner of the property upon which such nuisance
exists; and any occupant, lessee and agent in possession or control of the
property shall be jointly and severally liable. The village or contracted
private business may collect by judgment and may file a notice of lien in the
office of the county recorder of deeds, which notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, the amount of money representing the costs and expenses
incurred or payable for the service, and the date or dates when such costs or
expenses were incurred by the village. (Ord. 602-00, 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 5
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Sexually Oriented Business Defined
4-5-2: Nuisance Declared
4-5-3: Violation And Penalty
4-5-4: Abatement
4-5-1: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS DEFINED:
A "sexually oriented business" as used hereunder is any business that has as
its primary purpose the selling, renting or showing of sexually explicit matter
including, but not limited to, the following businesses:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   C.   Adult cabarets;
   D.   Adult live and motion picture theaters;
   E.   Escort agencies;
   F.   Seminude model studios; and
   G.   Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 604-00, 1-8-2001)
4-5-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
All sexually oriented businesses as defined herein are declared to be nuisances
and are barred from operating on any public or private property. (Ord. 604-00,
1-8-2001)
4-5-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person, including any owner, investor, occupant, lessee or agent in
possession or control of property, who to any extent controls, allows, or
permits the establishment or operation of a sexually oriented business or who
sells, rents or shows any sexually explicit matter therein or who performs,
offers, commits, consumes, purchases or receives any sexually explicit matter
therein shall be guilty of a nuisance and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and be subject to an additional
sentence of up to six (6) months in the county jail. Each day of such an
offense shall be a separate offense. Any abatement of the nuisance, subsequent
to the commission of the offense shall not constitute a defense. A conviction
pursuant to this section shall not prevent the village from seeking an
abatement or any other relief. (Ord. 604-00, 1-8-2001)
4-5-4: ABATEMENT:
Any abatement under this chapter shall only be pursuant to the nonsummary
abatement procedures provided in chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 604-00, 1-8-
2001)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Treatment Of Animals
5-1-3: Prohibited Acts
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALTERED OR STERILIZED: Any dog or cat that has been surgically rendered
incapable of reproducing.
ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: Any facility approved by the village board for the
purpose of enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs, or other animals. The term may be used
interchangeably with pound.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person approved by the village board who has
responsibility for the enforcement of the animal control provisions of this
code.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by
its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal in a public place.
FERAL CAT: A cat that is born: a) in the wild or is the offspring of an owned
or feral cat and is not socialized, or b) is a formerly owned cat that has been
abandoned and is no longer socialized or lives on a farm.
IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the public animal control facility in or
for the village where the animal is found.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal, or keeps or harbors
an animal, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian.
UNALTERED OR UNSTERILIZED: Any dog or cat upon which no surgery has been
performed to render the animal incapable of reproducing. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-
2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1-2: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously inflict
unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture or abuse on any animal; or cruelly
beat, strike or abuse any animal; or by any act, omission or neglect cause or
inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to
any animal, whether such animal belongs to such person or to another, except
that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing
animals.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to fail,
refuse or neglect to provide such animal with humane care and treatment,
including sufficient and wholesome food and water, shade during warm weather,
shelter, and veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, or to cruelly or
unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather,
or to carry any such animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane
manner.
      1.   The term "shelter", as it applies to pets, shall mean a
moistureproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the pet and allow
retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid floor raised at
least two inches (2") from the ground and with the entrance protected from
direct wind and rain.
      2.   Such structure shall be provided with sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection against cold or dampness.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, instigate or permit any
dogfight, cockfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   D.   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal where it may become a
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
   E.   No person shall give away any dog, cat or other live animal, fish,
reptile or bird as a prize for or an inducement to enter any contest, game or
other competition; as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or as an
incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the
purpose of attracting trade. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   An owner or keeper of any dog, cat, or other animal shall exercise
proper care and control of such dog, cat, or other animal to prevent such
animal from committing any of the following:
      1.   Bite or attack anyone when unprovoked;
      2.   Destroy private property of others;
      3.   Scatter refuse;
      4.   Chase vehicles;
      5.   Create unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to others; or
      6.   Cause unsanitary conditions within village limits.
   B.   Any owner or keeper who violates subsection A of this section shall be
fined no less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   C.   No owner or keeper of any dog, cat, or other animal which has attacked
or bitten anyone when unprovoked shall keep such dog, cat, or other animal
within village limits.
   D.   Upon the filing of a complaint of a violation of subsection C of this
section, the village president or the chief of police is authorized to order
the animal involved to be impounded, and held in confinement at the owner's
expense in addition to any penalties resulting as a resolution of the
complaint. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Animal Control Officer
5-1A-2: License And Registration Required
5-1A-3: Rabies Inoculation Required
5-1A-4: Display Of License Tag Or Microchip
5-1A-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1A-6: Dog Nuisances Declared
5-1A-7: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-1A-8: Records Kept
5-1A-9: Dog Bites; Rabies Suspects
5-1A-10: Penalties
5-1A-1: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment: An animal control officer may be appointed by the village
president, by and with the consent of the board of trustees. The animal control
officer shall be the chief of police unless other appointment is made by the
village president, by and with the consent of the board of trustees.
   B.   Duties And Powers: The duties and the powers of the animal control
officer are:
      1.   The animal control officer shall be authorized to make all necessary
arrests in carrying out the provisions of this article.
      2.   The animal control officer is hereby charged with the duty of
impounding all dogs running at large in violation of the provisions of this
article.
      3.   Respond in a timely manner to complaints or incidents of violations
of this article.
      4.   Capture/apprehend stray dogs or cats that have been involved in a
bite incident.
      5.   Keep a monthly summary. Turn in these reports to the village clerk
monthly. Complete animal incident reports and turn these in to the village
clerk after each incident.
      6.   Attend required meetings and activities as directed by the village
board.
      7.   Cooperate with county and state law enforcement agencies regarding
animal concerns.
      8.   Ensure that all animal control equipment belonging to the village,
including cages, kennels and live traps, are properly maintained and cleaned.
      9.   If a live trap is necessary to catch a cat involved in a bite
incident, such trap must be humanely set and checked every twelve (12) hours or
sooner.
      10.   Maintain Illinois state licensed and approved impoundment
facilities or contract for services that meet those established standards that
will provide and care for impounded animals. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-
1-2006)
5-1A-2: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   No dog over sixteen (16) weeks of age shall be permitted to be or
remain in the village without being licensed as hereinafter provided.
   B.   All dogs kept in the village shall be registered with Lee County animal
control in accordance with Lee County animal control ordinances and state of
Illinois statutes.
   C.   Application for a license from Lee County animal control must be made
within thirty (30) days after obtaining a dog sixteen (16) weeks of age or at
the time the animal reaches the age of sixteen (16) weeks, whichever is longer.
This requirement will not apply to a nonresident keeping a dog within the
village not longer than thirty (30) days, nor to a resident of the village
temporarily keeping an animal for not longer than thirty (30) days.
   D.   The village clerk shall maintain a record of the identifying numbers of
all tags (and/or microchips) issued by Lee County animal control to residents
of the village of Franklin Grove, and shall make this record available to the
public within a reasonable time upon request.
   E.   No person may use any license for any other animal than the animal for
which it was issued. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1A-3: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person in custody of any dog kept in the
village to have the dog inoculated against rabies at sixteen (16) weeks of age
and once per year thereafter. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1A-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE TAG OR MICROCHIP:
It shall be the duty of the owner to cause the license tag or an approved
microchip issued by Lee County animal control to be securely attached around
the dog's neck (tag), or under the skin in the neck area (chip) and kept there
at all times during the license period. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-
2006)
5-1A-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Running At Large: It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to
permit such animal to run at large within the village limits. The owner or
keeper of any dog shall not permit such animal to go beyond the premises of the
owner or keeper unless such dog is securely leashed or otherwise securely
restrained.
   B.   Dangerous Or Sick Dogs Running At Large: No vicious, dangerous, or
ferocious dog, or dog sick with, or liable to communicate hydrophobia or other
contagious or infectious diseases shall be permitted to run at large within the
village.
   C.   Disturbing The Peace: No person owning or keeping any dog shall permit
such dog to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making
other loud or unusual noises, or by running across or through cultivated
gardens or fields.
   D.   Removal Of Waste: The owner or keeper of a dog must remove immediately
any waste left by the dog on any property within the village limits other than
the property of the owner or keeper of said dog. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff.
1-1-2006)
5-1A-6: DOG NUISANCES DECLARED:
Any dog found in the village either without a license or running at large under
conditions set forth above shall be declared to be a nuisance and shall be
impounded as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1A-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Notice Of Impoundment: Public notice of the impounding of any
dog shall be given by posting one copy of the impounding notice on the front
window of the village hall not more than twenty four (24) hours after animal is
impounded.
   B.   Impounding Notice: The notice shall provide a description of the dog,
the date of impounding, and the procedure for redeeming the impounded animal.
Redemption of the dog requires that all fees relating to the impoundment be
paid before the animal is released to include, but not be limited to, fines,
boarding fees, veterinary fees, licensing fees, and transportation fees.
   C.   Disposition Of Impounded Dogs: All dogs impounded by the village shall
be transferred as soon as possible to the custody of the Lee County animal
control officer. All dogs requiring holding until transfer can be made shall be
impounded in a state approved holding facility provided by the village or to
such a service as contracted for by the village.
   D.   Impoundment Authority: Any police officer, animal control officer, or
elected officer of the village is authorized to impound any dog found to be in
any manner in violation of this code.
   E.   Licensed Dogs Impounded: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer, or his designee, to cause notice to be served in person, by telephone,
or by certified mail upon the registered owner of any licensed dog impounded
under the provisions of this article, and to post the notice of impoundment if
the owner cannot be reached in person or by telephone.
   F.   Redemption Of Dogs: The owner or owners of any dogs impounded hereunder
may redeem the same by paying all the costs, charges, and penalties assessed,
if any, that have accrued up to the time of making the redemption. When all
accrued fees have been paid, the animal control officer may authorize the
release of the dog to the owner thereof. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-
2006)
5-1A-8: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   Immediately after impounding any dog hereunder, it shall be the duty of
the animal control officer to enter upon the records of the police department,
in a book to be kept by him for such purpose, the date of impounding, a
description of the dog impounded and a record as to whether such dog has been
licensed and tagged by the provisions of this article.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the village clerk to maintain a fee schedule of
costs associated with impounding a dog under the provisions of this code, and
to make the schedule available to the general public upon request. (Ord. 657-
05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1A-9: DOG BITES; RABIES SUSPECTS:
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of said dog shall immediately notify
the chief of police who shall order the dog held on the owner's premises or
shall have it impounded for a period of two (2) weeks. The dog shall be
examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the two
(2) week period. If, at the end of two (2) weeks, a veterinarian is convinced
that the dog is then free from rabies, the dog shall be released from
quarantine or from the pound, as the case may be. If the dog dies in the
meanwhile, its head shall be sent to the state department of health for
examination for rabies. (Ord. 657-05, 12-12-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1A-10: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, plus any fees
incurred. (Ord. 662-05, 11-14-2005)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Definitions
5-1B-2: Livestock And Fowl Prohibited
5-1B-3: Nonconforming Uses
5-1B-4: Additional Restrictions
5-1B-5: Inspection, Notice
5-1B-6: Abatement Procedures
5-1B-7: Responsibility Of Property Owner
5-1B-8: Enforcement
5-1B-9: Penalties
5-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
FOWL: Any species of chicken, turkey, pheasant, duck, geese and any other
species of bird, privately or commercially raised or produced in the village.
LIVESTOCK: Any species of horse, mule, donkey, burro, cattle, sheep, swine or
goats. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
5-1B-2: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL PROHIBITED:
Livestock and fowl shall not be raised, maintained, bred, housed, stabled,
pastured or allowed to feed, run or graze upon any property within the village.
(Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
5-1B-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing Nonconforming Uses: The lawful use of property, buildings and
structures existing at the time of the effective date hereof, although such use
does not conform to the provisions hereof, may be continued, but if such
nonconforming use is discontinued for a period in excess of ninety (90) days,
then use of the premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
   B.   Restoration Of Damaged, Nonconforming Building Or Structure: No
building or structure which has been devoted to a nonconforming use which has
been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of twenty five percent (25%)
of its value, shall be repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with this
article. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
   C.   Conveyance Of Nonconforming Use: No right or privilege of a
nonconforming use shall pass with the conveyance of title by a nonconforming
user to grantee of said user. A nonconforming use shall cease with respect to
this article upon a conveyance by a nonconforming user to a grantee. (Ord. 487,
9-2-1980)
5-1B-4: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Increase In Number Of Animals: It shall be unlawful to increase in
number the kind or quantity of livestock or fowl presently living within the
village as of the effective date hereof.
   B.   Animal Houses: No building or structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, enlarged or structurally altered for use as a barn, house, shed
or otherwise in which to house, feed, raise or maintain livestock or fowl
within the village.
   C.   Animal Premises: No premises shall be maintained in the village upon
which offal, manure, animal fecal matter or diseased or dead animals are
contained so as to create, cause or maintain a public nuisance, or which shall
endanger the health of the community or any of the persons within it. (Ord.
487, 9-2-1980)
   D.   Removal Of Waste: The owner of a horse must remove immediately any
waste matter left by the horse on any property within village limits.
   E.   Sidewalks: No horse shall be permitted on any sidewalk within village
limits. (Ord. 541, 7-1-1991)
5-1B-5: INSPECTION, NOTICE:
The village police, or any other village official, shall be empowered to give
notice to any person owning or in control of any property within the village,
which notice shall be given in writing by ordinary U.S. mail or in person,
requiring the said owner or person in control to permit inspection of the
premises containing any livestock or fowl within the village. The purpose of
the inspection shall be to obtain a count of the number of livestock or fowl
upon the said premises as of the date of the inspection. The notice requiring
the inspection shall be mailed or served not less than three (3) days prior to
the inspection date. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
5-1B-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: The village police, or any other village officials,
are hereby authorized and empowered to notify the person owning or in control
of any property to remove any livestock or fowl within the village in violation
of this article. Such notice shall be given personally or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the residence or usual place of
business of such person. Proof of said notice so mailed shall be proof of
receipt thereof as provided herein.
   B.   Failure To Abate: After the expiration of ten (10) days from the
receipt of the notice provided for in subsection A of this section, if the
person so notified has failed, neglected or refused to comply with the
directions of such notice, the village police officer or village officials are
hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the removal and disposal of such
livestock or fowl, or to order the removal and disposal by the village.
   C.   Removal And Disposal Costs: In the event the village is required to
remove and dispose of the livestock or fowl, the owner or person in control of
the premises, whomsoever shall have been notified, shall be liable to the
village for the expense incurred by the village. A statement shall be rendered
to the person liable for the cost thereof and if not paid, suit shall be
instituted. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
5-1B-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
No owner of property within the village shall allow or permit lessees or users
of owner's property to violate this article. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980)
5-1B-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the village police to enforce this article. (Ord. 487,
9-2-1980)
5-1B-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of this article or who fails, neglects
or refuses to comply with the notice provided for in subsection 5-1B-6A of this
article shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day any such violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty specified in this section shall be
in addition to the liability for expense provided for in subsection 5-1B-6C of
this article. (Ord. 487, 9-2-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
ARTICLE C. BEES
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Keeping Bees Prohibited
5-1C-2: Beehives Declared A Nuisance
5-1C-3: Penalty
5-1C-1: KEEPING BEES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor any bees in the village. (Ord. 445, 8-7-
1972)
5-1C-2: BEEHIVES DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any beehive used or occupied by bees is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
it shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any such hive in the village. (Ord.
445, 8-7-1972)
5-1C-3: PENALTY:
Whoever shall be guilty of keeping or harboring bees or keeping or maintaining
any beehive in violation of this article, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 445, 8-7-1972)
ARTICLE D. VICIOUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Declaration Of Purpose
5-1D-2: Legislative Intent
5-1D-3: Definitions
5-1D-4: Keeping Of Vicious Dogs Prohibited
5-1D-5: Failure To Comply
5-1D-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The findings of the village board set forth in the preambles to ordinance 528
are incorporated herein as if fully set forth. (Ord. 528, 1-9-1989)
5-1D-2: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
This article is adopted pursuant to the powers granted to municipalities in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-1, 5/11-5-6 and 5/11-20-9, as amended, and
510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24, as amended. (Ord. 528, 1-9-1989)
5-1D-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article the following terms and phrases shall have the
meaning set forth in this section:
BITE: To seize or cut with the teeth.
CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or structure designed and
constructed for the keeping of a vicious dog and shall be designed, constructed
and maintained in accordance with the standards herein. Such pen, kennel or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All
structures used to confine registered vicious dogs must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structures
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2'). All
structures erected to house vicious dogs must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the village. All such structures must be adequately
lighted, ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
FIGHT: A prearranged conflict between two (2) or more animals but does not
include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
K-9 PATROL DOG OR POLICE DOG: A professionally trained dog used by law
enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
LEASH: A cord, chain, rope, strap or other physical restraint having a tensile
strength of not less than three hundred (300) pounds.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or a metal muzzle. The
muzzle must be made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any
person or animal.
NIP: To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin tissue.
RUNNING AT LARGE: The failure to confine a vicious dog in accordance with the
terms of this article.
VICIOUS DOG: Any animal that has without provocation, attacked a human being or
other animal, or dog that by its behavior or physical condition constitutes an
immediate and serious physical or health threat to human beings or animals, or
any dog which has previously attacked or bitten any human being or other animal
on two (2) or more reported occasions.
VILLAGE: The village of Franklin Grove, Illinois. (Ord. 528, 1-9-1989; amd.
Ord. 730-12, 12-10-2012)
5-1D-4: KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within the
corporate limits of the village any vicious dog; provided, that vicious dogs
residing in the village on the date of passage of this article may be kept
within the village subject to the standards and requirements including
licensing requirements, herein set forth.
Vicious dogs residing in the village at the time of passage of this article may
be kept by their owners within the village, subject to the following standards:
   A.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited: No person shall sell, barter
or in any other way dispose of a vicious dog registered within the village
unless the recipient person resides permanently in the same household and on
the same premises as the registered owner of such vicious dog; provided, that
the registered owner of a vicious dog may sell or otherwise dispose of a
vicious dog or the offspring of such a vicious dog to persons who do not reside
within the village.
   B.   Animals Born Of Vicious Dogs: All offspring born of vicious dogs
registered within the village must be removed from the village within six (6)
weeks of the birth of such animal.
   C.   Irrebuttable Presumptions: There shall be an irrebuttable presumption
that any dog registered with the village as a vicious dog is in fact a vicious
dog subject to the requirements of this article.
   D.   Licensing Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   No person shall possess any vicious dog for a period of more than
forty eight (48) hours without having first obtained a license therefor from
the village.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a vicious dog shall be filed
with the village clerk on a form prescribed and provided by the village clerk
and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
         a.   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner's driver's license.
         b.   Proof of ownership of the vicious dog.
         c.   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the
vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the state of
Illinois.
         d.   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) providing coverage for any
injury, damage or loss caused by the vicious dog.
         e.   Two (2) photographs of the vicious dog to be licensed, taken not
less than one month before the date of the application. One photograph shall
provide a front view of the vicious dog and shall clearly show the face and
ears of the vicious dog. One photograph shall show a side view of the vicious
dog.
         f.   A license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
         g.   Such other information as may be required by the village clerk.
      3.   Upon receipt of an application, the village clerk shall forward such
application to the police department which shall cause an inspection of the
premises on which the vicious dog shall be kept to determine that all
provisions of this article relating to confinement and posting of signs have
been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of the inspection, the
police department shall notify the village clerk in writing of the results of
its inspection.
      4.   Upon receipt of the results of the police department inspection, the
village clerk shall notify the applicant of the approval or denial of the
license. In the event that the license is denied, the notification shall be
provided in writing and the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon
approval, the village clerk shall issue a license to the applicant.
   E.   Confinement Of Vicious Dogs: No person shall possess any vicious dog
unless the vicious dog is confined in accordance with this section.
      1.   Confinement Indoors: No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the vicious dog to exit
the structure on its own volition. No vicious dog shall be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing the vicious dog from exiting the structure.
      2.   Confinement In An Exterior Yard: No person shall permit a vicious
dog to go outside a confinement structure, house or other structure unless the
vicious dog is securely restrained with a leash no longer than four feet (4')
in length and fitted with a muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be
kept on a leash unless a person is in physical control of the leash. No leash
restraining any vicious dog shall be attached to any inanimate object,
including, but not limited to, trees, posts, stakes and buildings.
   F.   Reporting Requirements Of Licensee: Any person holding a license
pursuant to this article shall report the incidence of any of the following
events:
      1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any vicious dog shall
be reported within forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   The escape from confinement of any vicious dog shall be reported
upon discovery of the escape.
      3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious dog shall
be reported upon occurrence.
      4.   The birth of any offspring of a vicious dog shall be reported within
forty eight (48) hours of the birth of the offspring.
      5.   The permanent removal of any vicious dog from the territorial limits
of the municipality shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours of such
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the village clerk.
Except as provided in subsection F5 of this section, the report of any incident
required to be reported under this section shall be made to the police
department of the village.
   G.   Sign Required: All persons possessing a vicious dog shall display in a
prominent place on the premises where a vicious dog is to be kept a sign which
is printed with the letters not less than four inches (4") in height using the
words "Beware Of Dog -- Vicious". A similar sign shall be posted on any
confinement structure.
   H.   Fighting Prohibited: No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight
or bait, or keep, train or transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting,
any vicious dog.
   I.   Impoundment Of Vicious Dog: Any vicious dog which by its actions is a
"vicious dog" as defined herein shall be subject to immediate impoundment by
the police department in a humane facility for the keeping of dogs. If the
incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an injury to a person,
upon impoundment by the police department, the chief of police or his designee
shall notify the rabies control administrator of the county pursuant to 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12, as amended, and shall transfer control of the
vicious dog to the administrator in accordance with 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/13, as amended.
   J.   Impoundment Of Vicious Dog Running At Large: Any vicious dog found to
be running at large by any member of the police department of the municipality
shall be presumed to be in violation of this section and shall be subject to
impoundment by the police department in a humane facility for the keeping of
dogs.
   K.   Redemption Or Impounded Vicious Dog: An owner of a vicious dog holding
a license pursuant to this article may redeem an impounded vicious dog if: 1) a
vicious dog has been impounded pursuant to subsection J of this section, or 2)
a vicious dog has not caused an injury to person, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   Proof of a valid license issued by the municipality under this
article.
      2.   Payment of the cost of keeping the vicious dog during the period of
impoundment.
An owner of a vicious dog which has caused an injury to a person resulting in
the impoundment of the vicious dog shall be entitled to redeem the vicious dog
in accordance with 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13, as amended.
   L.   Revocation Of License: A license granted pursuant to this article shall
be automatically revoked upon any violation by the licensee and the license fee
shall be retained by the village.
   M.   Exceptions: This article shall not apply to any "K-9 patrol dogs" or
"police dogs" as defined herein.
   N.   Penalties: Upon conviction of a violation of this article, the court
shall assess a fine of not less than one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
Upon a finding by the court that a licensee has violated subsection A, B, D, E,
F, G, or H of this section, the court shall enter an order revoking the license
and ordering the former holder of the license to remove the vicious dog from
the village. (Ord. 528, 1-9-1989; amd. Ord. 730-12, 12-10-2012)
5-1D-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious dog
registered with the village to fail to comply with the requirements and
conditions set forth in this article. Any vicious dog found to be the subject
of a violation of this article shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the revocation of
the license of such animal resulting in the immediate removal of the animal
from the village. (Ord. 528, 1-9-1989; amd. Ord. 730-12, 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted
5-2-2: Offenses Against Public Peace
5-2-3: Distribution And Use Of Tobacco; Minors
5-2-4: Curfew For Minors
5-2-5: Assembly/Loitering/Trespass; Prohibited Acts
5-2-6: Gang Activity
5-2-7: Vandalism
5-2-8: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-9: Skateboards Banned
5-2-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The provisions of the Illinois criminal code of 1961, as amended 1 ,
are hereby adopted in full and as subsequently amended.
   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of the
Illinois criminal code of 1961 as charged under this code shall be punished by
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for any one offense.
   C.   Enforcement of all provisions of this section shall be by the police
department of the village. (Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-2-2: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to commit:
      1.   Unlawful Conduct: Disturb, tend to disturb or aid in disturbing the
peace of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, and
no person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or
possessed by him or under his control.
      2.   Assault: Assault, beat, strike, wound, imprison or inflict violence
on another where the circumstances show malice, or assault another with intent
to commit any misdemeanor or felony. Nor shall any person assault another with
a lethal weapon, instrument or thing with intent to commit upon the person of
another any bodily injury where no considerable provocation appears or where
the circumstances of the assault show malice.
      3.   Fighting: Fight another person.
      4.   Fighting Words: No person shall, in the presence or hearing of
another, curse or abuse such other person, or use any violent abusive language
to such person concerning himself, any of his relations, or his ethnic group,
or otherwise use such language under circumstances reasonably calculated to
provoke a breach of the peace. (Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
5-2-3: DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF TOBACCO; MINORS:
   A.   Illegal Distribution Of Cigarettes Or Other Tobacco Products: No
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes or
other tobacco products, or any agent, employee or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of cigarettes or
other tobacco products shall do any of the following:
      1.   Give, sell or otherwise distribute cigarettes or other tobacco
products to any minor;
      2.   Give, sell or distribute cigarettes or other tobacco products in any
place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling or otherwise distributing cigarettes or other tobacco products
to a person under eighteen (18) years of age is prohibited by law;
      3.   Give, sell or distribute cigarettes or other tobacco products to any
person without first verifying, via a photo identification such as a driver's
license, that the person is eighteen (18) years old or older.
   B.   Vending Machines Prohibited: The sale or distribution of cigarettes or
any tobacco product via use of a vending machine is prohibited.
      1.   No person or business entity of any type shall permit, facilitate or
condone the sale or distribution of any cigarette or other tobacco product, via
a vending machine, at his or her establishment.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   An employer may provide cigarette or other tobacco product
vending machines for employees at the work establishment if the vending
machines are not accessible to the public, and persons under eighteen (18)
years of age are not employees of the establishment.
         b.   Licensed liquor establishments may provide tobacco products
vending machines if the machines are not accessible to minors.
   C.   Cigarette Purchase, Possession Or Smoking By Minors Prohibited: No
person under eighteen (18) years of age shall purchase, possess or consume in
any manner or form cigarettes or any tobacco product.
      1.   Possession is not an offense if the person under eighteen (18) years
of age was in possession of an unopened container or containers of the
cigarette or other tobacco product while performing their specified duties at a
lawful place of employment.
      2.   No parent, legal guardian, or caretaker shall permit, allow, condone
or facilitate a child under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase, possess or
consume in any manner of form cigarettes or any tobacco products.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
5-2-4: CURFEW FOR MINORS 1 :
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person less
than eighteen (18) years of age to be present upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the village at the following times
unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion
at least eighteen (18) years of age unless engaged in a business or occupation
which the laws of the state authorize a person less than eighteen (18) years of
age to perform:
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. on Saturday;
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. on Sunday; and
Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 A.M. on the
following day.
   B.   Standard Time: Time referred to herein is based upon the prevailing
standard of time, whether Central Standard Time or Central daylight saving
time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the village, prima facie
the time then observed in the village hall.
   C.   Detaining Child: Every member of the police force, while on duty, is
hereby authorized to detain any such minor wilfully violating the provisions of
subsection A of this section until the parent or guardian of the child shall
take him or her into custody, but such officer shall immediately upon taking
custody of such child communicate with the parent or guardian or other person
having custody of such minor.
   D.   Permitting Child To Violate Curfew: It shall be unlawful for anyone
having the legal care and custody of any person as described above to allow or
permit such person to go or be upon any public street, alley or other public
place in the village in the nighttime as restricted in subsection A of this
section, except in case of necessity. (Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-2-9 of this code.
5-2-5: ASSEMBLY/LOITERING/TRESPASS; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall loiter in or around or obstruct free access to or free
use of public buildings, stores or shops, public streets or public ways in the
village, or obstruct corridors, stairways or doorways so as to prevent free
access by members of the public, officers, employees, occupants, or any other
persons;
   B.   No person shall, by his presence or in consort with others, interfere
with or interrupt the conduct of pedestrian movement, motor vehicular traffic
or business in such stores or shops or in the offices located in any such
buildings in the village.
   C.   No person shall sit, lie, stand, kneel or recline on any improvement
such as walls, retaining fixtures, sidewalks, and curbing or on any such
improvement which is not specifically provided for or intended for such purpose
or use in any public place in the village.
   D.   A person commits a violation if he singly or in consort with others
loiters or prowls in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law
abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of
persons or property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether such alarm is warranted are:
      1.   The actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer;
      2.   Refuses to identify himself; or
      3.   Manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object.
   E.   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the actor the opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted by requesting him to identify himself and explain his
presence and conduct.
   F.   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if a
peace officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if it appears that
the explanation given by the actor was true and, if believed by the police
officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
   G.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit innocent public
assembly, political, religious or civil demonstrations, gatherings or
activities, but rather to prohibit conduct calculated to do harm to the persons
or property of others and to the rights and freedom of others. (Ord. 566, 7-10-
1995)
5-2-6: GANG ACTIVITY:
   A.   Temporary Questioning Without Arrest: A police officer, after having
identified himself as a police officer, may stop any person in a public place
for a reasonable period of time when the person is wearing known gang colors,
emblems or other gang insignia, or appears to be engaged in communicating gang
related messages through the use of hand signals or other means of
communication, and the officer reasonably infers from the circumstances that
the person is committing, is about to commit or has committed any offense set
forth in the ordinances of the village. Once stopped, the officer may demand
the name and address of the person and an explanation of his actions. Such
detention and temporary questioning will be conducted in the vicinity of where
the person was stopped.
   B.   Search For Weapons: When a police officer has stopped a person for
temporary questioning pursuant to subsection A of this section and the officer
reasonably suspects that he or another officer is in danger of attack, he may
search the person for weapons. If an officer discovers a weapon, he may take it
until the completion of the questioning, at which time he shall return the
weapon, if lawfully possessed, or arrest the person so questioned.
   C.   Graffiti Prohibited:
      1.   Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a nuisance as set
forth in the ordinances of the village and subject to the provisions of village
ordinances regarding nuisances and the abatement thereof.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place graffiti upon the real
or personal, public or private property of another.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of fixed real or
personal property which is in public view to place or give permission for the
placement of any graffiti on such property without first having obtained a
properly issued sign permit.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, while in any public
building or public facility or while on private property, a spray paint
container, paint, ink, or marking pen which contains a nonwater soluble fluid,
brush, applicator, or any other material for marking, scratching or etching
with the intent to use such material in violation of subsection C2 and/or C3 of
this section.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person or known street gang associate
to display, demonstrate, communicate or "throw" street gang hand signs in any
public place within the village. A person will be considered in violation of
this section if such facts cause a reasonable person to conclude the activity
is related to street gang activity.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   The penalty for violation of subsection C2 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). In addition to said fine, the offender may be required by
the court to pay restitution to the property owner for the costs of restoring
the property to its state prior to the application of graffiti.
      2.   The penalty for violation of subsection C3 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during which a violation occurs or continues.
      3.   The penalty for violation of subsection C4 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      4.   The penalty for violation of subsection C5 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      5.   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection C2, C3, C4 or C5
of this section, who is found to have been a member of a gang as defined by
section
1-3-2 of this code or a candidate for membership in a gang at the time the
offense was committed and who is found to have violated said subsection in
conjunction with gang related activities, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) in addition to other penalties provided in this section.
(Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
5-2-7: VANDALISM:
   A.   All acts of vandalism are hereby declared to be unlawful.
      1.   The wilful or malicious damaging or defacing, within the corporate
limits of the village, another person's real or personal property, without the
owner's consent is hereby declared unlawful.
      2.   The wilful or malicious entry into, or the obtaining control over
any motor vehicle, bicycle or water craft of another person, without the other
person's consent is hereby declared unlawful. (Ord. 566, 7-10-1995)
5-2-8: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful to commit an act of disorderly conduct by any person in
the village. A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the
purpose of causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance, or if his conduct
is likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, he commits any
of the following acts in a public place:
   A.   Commits an act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby
that other is placed in danger or fear for the safety of his life or health;
   B.   Commits an act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby
the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   C.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, health or property of another;
   D.   Interferes with another's lawful occupation or pursuits by acts of
violence, angry threats, or abusive conduct;
   E.   Obstructs, whether singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when
ordered to do so by the police department or other lawful authority;
   F.   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the police department
or any other authorized village official;
   G.   Incites, attempts to incite or is involved in attempting to incite a
riot or unlawful disturbance;
   H.   Use of abusive language or threats to any member of the police
department, any other authorized village official who is engaged in the lawful
performance of his duties, or any other person when such words have a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance
or resentment are not prohibited;
   I.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another
so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition;
   J.   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable noise
or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to any
public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or common, whereby the
public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public annoyed;
   K.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disburse by a police officer where one
or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, and the public health and safety is threatened;
   L.   Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture in public;
   M.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using force
or violence to disturb the public peace;
   N.   Appears in any public place and is manifestly under the influence of
alcohol, narcotics or other drug, not therapeutically administered, to the
degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property, or alarm or
disturb other persons in his vicinity;
   O.   Transmits in any manner to any police officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   P.   Uses paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage or destroy
property; or
   Q.   No person shall cast or throw any stone, snowball, iceball, disk shaped
object, Frisbee, stick or other projectile at, on, or into any public street,
walkway, parking area, vehicle, building or adjoining premises. (Ord. 566, 7-
10-1995)
5-2-9: SKATEBOARDS BANNED:
   A.   Definition: A "skateboard" is a single platform mounted on wheels which
is propelled solely by human power.
   B.   Prohibited: The use of skateboards is banned on village sidewalks,
streets and all village owned properties, including Atlasta park, and on any
private property which is posted "No Skateboarding".
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section is subject to a fine of no less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 638-03, 11-10-2003)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Traffic Signs And Signals
6-1-3: Animals And Bicycles
6-1-4: Exemptions To Traffic Laws
6-1-5: Speed Limits
6-1-6: Vehicle Weight And Load
6-1-7: Penalties
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this title, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLES: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than twenty inches (20")
in diameter.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the
sidewalk lines at street intersections.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire protection district,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the property lines
of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such streets
cross.
LOADING ZONES: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated upon
rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel with not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
(Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Conformance With State Standards: All signs and signals established by
direction of the governing body shall conform to the "Illinois State Manual Of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways".
   B.   Obedience To Traffic Signs And Signals: It shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal
placed in view by the authority of the Village President and Board of Trustees,
or in accordance with the laws of the State, excepting on direction of a police
officer.
   C.   Injury To Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to deface,
injure, move or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. 503,
9-6-1983)
6-1-3: ANIMALS AND BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving an animal drawing a
vehicle upon a street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be driven on sidewalks. (Ord.
503, 9-6-1983)
6-1-4: EXEMPTIONS TO TRAFFIC LAWS:
The provisions of this title regulating movement or parking of vehicles shall
not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to
an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall slow down as
necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red light or stop sign
or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-1-5: SPEED LIMITS:
On Illinois Route 38, the Lincoln Highway, through the Village of Franklin
Grove, a speed limit of thirty five (35) miles per hour is adopted as a prima
facie speed limit at all places on said route in the Village. (Ord. 659-05, 1-
8-2007)
6-1-6: VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD 1 :
   A.   Weight And Load Limits Established: No person shall operate any vehicle
having any axle load in excess of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds and/or
having a gross weight in excess of fifty four thousand (54,000) pounds on any
highways within the Village except when the above limits will be reduced during
the spring breakup period.
   B.   Reduction Of Weight And Load Limits:
      1.   The Village Board of Trustees may reduce the weight limitations on
highways found incapable of supporting vehicles with axle loads of sixteen
thousand (16,000) pounds.
      2.   During the season of the year when the frost is leaving the ground,
the load limit on all Village roads shall be reduced to the following gross
weights:
 
2 axles, single rear tire        7,000 pounds
2 axles, dual rear tires         16,000 pounds
3 or more axles, dual rear tires 25,000 pounds
 
   C.   Signs To Be Posted: The Village Trustee having charge of the streets,
roads and highways and in control of the Village is directed to erect and
maintain signs designating the provisions of this section at each end of that
portion of any highway affected by this section.
   D.   Enforcement: The Board of Trustees or any police officer of the Village
is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions of this section
and upon said highway being posted by signs limiting gross weights of vehicles
pursuant to this section, it shall be his duty to prosecute all violations of
this section. (Ord. 465, 3-22-1976)
   E.   Engine Braking: No person shall operate or cause to be used or
operated, within the limits of the Village, any engine braking system that
emits an excessive noise, except in the case of emergency. For purposes of this
section, "engine brake" is defined to include any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting
engine power to compressed air. The Chief of Police shall provide notice of
said prohibition by posting clearly visible signs at all truck routes entering
the Village stating:
EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE PROHIBITED
(Ord. 755-17, 1-9-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 6-2-4 of this title.
6-1-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who is in violation of this title shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: No Parking Places
6-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-3: Parking During Snow Removal
6-2-4: Parking Heavy Vehicles
6-2-5: Time Limit Parking
6-2-6: Signs To Be Posted
6-2-7: Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-2-8: Vehicle Ownership Prima Facie Proof
6-2-9: Parking On Highway
6-2-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
devices:
   A.   In any intersection.
   B.   In a crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or viaduct or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
   D.   Between the safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') from the intersection or crosswalk.
   G.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
   H.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   I.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of the railroad grade
crossing.
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance of such station within
seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted.
   L.   On any sidewalk or parkway.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 503, 9-6-
1983)
6-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Loading Zones: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any
place designated by the village president and board of trustees as a loading
zone and marked as such.
   B.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   C.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
private property without the consent of the owner of the property. (Ord. 503,
9-6-1983)
6-2-3: PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Interference With Snow Removal:
      1.   After an accumulation of three inches (3") or more of snow has
occurred and until both sides of the street, alley or public way have been
plowed, it shall be unlawful to allow any vehicle to remain parked from the
same side of a public street, alley or public way for more than twelve (12)
hours after the opposite side of the street, alley or public way upon which the
vehicle is parked has had the snow plowed by the village. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on Elm Street between
Highway 38 and Brown Street at any time within twelve (12) hours after a
snowfall of three inches (3") or more has occurred. (Ord. 452, 3-4-1974, eff.
3-4-1974)
   B.   Towing Vehicle, Costs: Any motor vehicle parked or standing in
violation of this section may be towed or moved to another location or to a
village impoundment area by a village vehicle or private towing service. No
vehicles towed to a village impoundment area shall be released to the owner,
lienholder or other person entitled to possession unless proper proof of
entitlement to possession is first furnished to the village and all storage
charges and towing charges incurred by the village are paid to the village.
   C.   Nonliability Of Village Or Towing Service: The owner and lienholder of
vehicles parked or standing in violation of this section shall not be entitled
to any claim for damages to any motor vehicle unless wilful and wanton
misconduct shall be established. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-2-4: PARKING HEAVY VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Weight Restrictions: No person shall park any vehicle weighing ten (10)
tons or more on a street, alley or other public roadway within the village.
   B.   Dismantled Or Separated Vehicles: Any part of a vehicle which has been
detached from another part of the vehicle when parked on a street, alley or
other public roadway within the village shall be considered over ten (10) tons
if the vehicle has a total weight of ten (10) tons or more before the vehicle
is dismantled or separated.
   C.   Removal And Impoundment Of Vehicles: The village police force is
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle or part of a vehicle which
reasonably appears to be in violation of this section. Such vehicle shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-201. Any claimant of a vehicle impounded under this
subsection shall pay reasonable storage and towing fees before the vehicle
shall be returned to such claimant. (Ord. 514, 8-5-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-1-6 of this title.
6-2-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person except the driver of an emergency vehicle
to park on Elm Street between the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad tracks and
South Street between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. for a period of time exceeding one hour. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-2-6: SIGNS TO BE POSTED:
The chief of police or any person authorized by the village president and board
of trustees shall cause signs to be posted in such areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 503,
9-6-1983)
6-2-7: TOWING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of the fire hydrant or may obstruct the movement of any emergency
vehicles; or any vehicle which has been parked on any public street or other
public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours.
Cars so towed away shall be stored on any village property or in a public
garage or parking lot and shall be returned to the owner or operator thereof
after payment of the expenses incurred by the village in removing and storing
such vehicles. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-2-8: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this title prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and is subject to the penalty therefor. (Ord. 503, 9-6-1983)
6-2-9: PARKING ON HIGHWAY:
   A.   Parking Permitted: Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be
permitted to park on Lincoln Highway (IL Route 38) in designated parking lanes
within the corporate limits of the village. Parking shall be parallel parking
only, diagonal parking being hereby expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking
shall be so executed that the wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall be
not farther away from the curb than twelve inches (12"). Parking will not be
permitted within the limits of intersections as determined by the state from
intersection studies.
   B.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   C.   Effective Date: This section is prepared in connection with the
proposed improvement of Lincoln Highway FAP 567 (IL Route 38) known as state
section 12R-RS, and shall go into full force and effect at the time of the
completion of said improvement. (Ord. 599, 4-12-2000)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED, JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-3-3: Junked, Disabled Vehicles
6-3-4: Notice To Abate
6-3-5: Impoundment
6-3-6: Payment Of Expenses For Impoundment
6-3-7: Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A vehicle remaining at any place within the village for such
time as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to be abandoned, shall be
deemed abandoned.
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE OR DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle, including trailers,
which is without currently valid license plates and in either wrecked,
discarded, dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition.
PERSON IN CONTROL: Any of the following: owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, singular or plural. (Ord. 481, 12-3-1979)
6-3-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
Abandonment of any motor vehicle by any person in the open, on streets, alleys
or on private property for a period of more than seven (7) days is hereby
declared to constitute a public nuisance. (Ord. 534, 10-2-1989)
6-3-3: JUNKED, DISABLED VEHICLES:
   A.   Parking And Storing Prohibited: Junked or disabled motor vehicles may
not be parked, stored or left in the open on private property unless it is
necessary for the operation of a business enterprise lawfully conducted
thereon.
   B.   Motor Vehicle Parts: Storing, placing or allowing to remain in the
open, on streets, alleys or private property of motor vehicle bodies, parts,
equipment, motors and materials for a period of more than forty eight (48)
hours in any one calendar month is hereby prohibited unless necessary for the
operation of a business enterprise lawfully conducted thereon.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Parking or storing of junked or disabled motor
vehicles and the storing or allowing same to remain in the open, of motor
vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors and materials in violation of
subsections A and B of this section is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance. (Ord. 481, 12-3-1979)
6-3-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   The village officials are hereby authorized and empowered to notify the
person in control of any private property to relocate any junked or disabled
vehicles parked or stored in violation of subsection 6-3-3A of this chapter to
a completely enclosed location on the property or otherwise to remove the same
from the premises.
   B.   The village officials are also hereby authorized and empowered to
notify the person in control of any private property to relocate any motor
vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors and materials stored, placed or
allowed to remain in the open in violation of subsection 6-3-3B of this chapter
to a completely enclosed location on the property or otherwise to remove the
same from the premises.
   C.   The village officials are further hereby authorized and empowered to
notify the person in control of any private property to relocate any abandoned
motor vehicle in violation of section
6-3-2 of this chapter to a completely enclosed location on the property or
otherwise to remove the same from the premises.
Such notice shall be given by personal service or certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, to the residence or usual place of business of such
person. Proof of said notice so mailed shall be proof of receipt thereof as
provided in section
6-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 481, 12-3-1979)
6-3-5: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   After the expiration of ten (10) days from the receipt of the notice
provided for in section
6-3-4 of this chapter, if the person so notified has failed, neglected or
refused to comply with the directions of such notice, the village officials are
hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the removal and disposal of such
vehicles, bodies, parts and the like, or to order the removal and disposal by
the village.
   B.   The village officials are empowered, without further notice, to remove
and impound or cause to be impounded any abandoned motor vehicle, the person in
control of which cannot, in the exercise of due diligence, be determined or
found. Such vehicle as provided in this subsection shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/4-201. Any claimant of a vehicle impounded under this subsection shall pay
reasonable storage and towing fees before the vehicle shall be returned to such
claimant. (Ord. 481, 12-3-1979)
6-3-6: PAYMENT OF EXPENSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT:
In the event the village is required to remove and dispose of the vehicles,
bodies, parts and the like, the person in control of the premises as heretofore
defined, shall be liable to the village for the expense incurred by the
village. A statement shall be rendered to the person liable for the cost
thereof and if not paid, suit shall be instituted therefor. (Ord. 481, 12-3-
1979)
6-3-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of section
6-3-2 or
6-3-3 of this chapter, or who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the
notice provided for in section
6-3-4 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). The penalty specified in this section shall be in addition to the
liability for expenses provided for in section
6-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 662-05, 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Operation Of Snowmobiles
6-4-2: Speed
6-4-3: Hours Of Operation
6-4-4: Unattended Vehicles
6-4-5: Traffic Regulations
6-4-6: Penalties
6-4-1: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the village
of Franklin Grove, except on the following designated streets:
   A.   State Street from the village limit on the south to Lahman Street;
   B.   Brown Street in its entirety;
   C.   Lahman Street from State Street to Spring Street;
   D.   Spring Street from Lahman Street to the southerly right of way of the
Chicago and Northwestern Railroad;
   E.   Elm Street, only to cross the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad double
tracks;
   F.   North/south alley, between N. Elm Street and N. Walnut Street, to North
Street.
   G.   North Street from alley in subsection F of this section to north/south
alley between N. Walnut Street and N. Sycamore Street;
   H.   North/south alley between N. Walnut and N. Sycamore to Illinois Route
38 across from Casey's;
   I.   Hughes Street from S. Walnut to the village limit to the east. (Ord.
617-02, 1-14-2002)
6-4-2: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the village of Franklin
Grove at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. (Ord. 617-02, 1-14-
2002)
6-4-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile in the village of Franklin Grove
except as follows:
   A.   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday;
   B.   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Friday and one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. Saturday;
   C.   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Saturday and one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. Sunday. (Ord. 617-02, 1-14-2002)
6-4-4: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a snowmobile to leave or
allow a snowmobile to be or remain unattended on any public property while the
motor is running or with the keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition
switch. (Ord. 617-02, 1-14-2002)
6-4-5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Each operator of a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs, signals
and all other rules and regulations applicable to motor vehicles and, in
addition thereto, shall yield the right of way to all other traffic at
intersections. (Ord. 617-02, 1-14-2002)
6-4-6: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted for a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 617-02, 1-14-
2002)
CHAPTER 5
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVs)
SECTION:
6-5-1: Prohibited
6-5-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be illegal to operate, drive, or cause to be driven any all-terrain
vehicles (ATVs) on the streets, public rights of way, or any public parks or
properties within the village limits. Operation of all-terrain vehicles by
emergency services personnel while engaged in response to an emergency does not
constitute a violation of this section. (Ord. 682-07, 6-11-2007, eff. 7-1-2007)
CHAPTER 6
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Prohibited
6-6-2: Definition
6-6-3: Requirements
6-6-4: Permits
6-6-5: Violation
6-6-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart on the roadways
within the village of Franklin Grove, except as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
700-09, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
6-6-2: DEFINITION:
A "golf cart" is a nonhighway vehicle as defined in the Illinois vehicle code.
(Ord. 700-09, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
6-6-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No golf cart shall be operated on a village roadway unless at a minimum
it conforms to all the requirements of the Illinois vehicle code and has in
good operational order the following:
      1.   Brakes;
      2.   Steering apparatus;
      3.   Tires;
      4.   Rearview mirror;
      5.   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear;
      6.   A slow moving emblem on the rear of the golf cart which emblem shall
conform to the Illinois vehicle code;
      7.   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front;
      8.   A taillight that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear;
      9.   Brake lights and turn signals; and
      10.   Seat belts.
   B.   No person shall operate a golf cart unless such person conforms to all
requirements of the Illinois vehicle code and conforms to the following:
      1.   Has proof on his or her person of current liability insurance;
      2.   Has a current valid driver's license;
      3.   Has a permit issued by the village of Franklin Grove.
   C.   No person shall operate a golf cart in violation of the following:
      1.   A golf cart may not be operated in excess of the posted speed limit
and in no event may it be operated in excess of twenty five (25) miles per
hour.
      2.   No person shall operate a golf cart in violation of any of the laws
of the state of Illinois, or of any ordinance of this village. (Ord. 700-09,
11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
6-6-4: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart without first obtaining a
permit from the village clerk as provided herein. Permits shall be granted
annually from the date designated on the permit. The village clerk may issue
such a permit for any date approved of and designated by the village board of
trustees. The cost of the permit is twenty dollars ($20.00). A temporary permit
for up to three (3) days may be issued at a cost of ten dollars ($10.00), good
for the days designated.
   B.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village clerk or a designee and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart;
      4.   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the village and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and all future
claims resulting from the operation of their golf carts on village streets; and
      5.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit.
   C.   The village clerk may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon
a finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart on
the designated roadways.
   D.   The village clerk shall be authorized to issue a permit on only such
days as may be approved by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 700-09, 11-9-
2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
6-6-5: VIOLATION:
Any failure of an individual to abide by this chapter or otherwise secure a
permit provided herein when operating a golf cart upon the roadways of the
village shall subject the violator to a fine of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) if paid to the village clerk within ten (10) days of the issuance of
a citation. If the fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) is not paid
within ten (10) days, charges may be filed for an ordinance violation and a
penalty imposed of no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and a
maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation. (Ord. 700-09, 11-9-
2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 7
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Operation Of Non-Highway Vehicles
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Regulation Of Non-Highway Vehicles
6-7-4: Insurance Requirements
6-7-5: Seatbelts Required
6-7-6: Permit Required
6-7-7: Violations
6-7-8: Prohibition Of Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles
6-7-1: OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
The use of specified non-highway vehicles on the streets, roadways and alleys
of the Village shall be permissible subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Non-highway vehicles may not be used on any toll road, interstate highway,
controlled access highway or other highway or road under the jurisdiction of
the State, except permitted crossing as hereafter set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth in this section:
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any recreational off-highway vehicle not specifically
designed to be used on a public highway. For purposes of this chapter, non-
highway vehicles shall not include all-terrain vehicles, off-highway vehicles
and all as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width, having
a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, traveling
on four (4) or more non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a
steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers. (Ord.
753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-3: REGULATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   All non-highway vehicles shall be operated only on streets where the
posted speed limit is thirty five (35) miles per hour or less. The foregoing
provision shall not prohibit a non-highway vehicle from crossing a road or
street at an intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit of
more than thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   B.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street, highway
or roadway unless he or she: 1) is eighteen (18) years of age or older; and 2)
has a valid driver's license issued in his or her name by the Illinois
Secretary of State or such other applicable foreign jurisdiction.
   C.   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct crossing
upon or across any toll road, interstate highway, or controlled access highway.
A person may make a direct crossing of any other highway under the jurisdiction
of the State at an intersection of the highway with another public street,
road, or highway.
   D.   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview
mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving
emblem, as required of other vehicles in section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, on the rear of the non-highway vehicle, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a tail
lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from
the rear, brake lights, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a non-
highway vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by
section 12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   E.   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a non- highway
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to sections 11-500
through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and all other applicable laws.
   F.   The operation of a non-highway vehicle upon any street, roadway or
alley is subject to the provisions of chapter 11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
concerning the Rules of the Road and all applicable Village ordinances, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
   G.   No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on any Village sidewalks or
other surfaces other than Village streets as otherwise allowed therein. (Ord.
753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any person who operates a non-highway vehicle on a street, highway, or roadway
of the Village shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under
article VI of chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-5: SEATBELTS REQUIRED:
During the operation of a non-highway vehicle, the operator and all passengers
shall wear a seatbelt. (Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the Village's streets,
roadway or alleys without first obtaining an annual permit from the Village as
provided herein. A permit shall be valid, unless suspended or revoked, for a
period of one (1) year. The annual cost of the permit shall be twenty dollars
($20.00). If a person has a valid permit for the non-highway vehicle from the
Dixon Park District for OHV use on the Stengel Trail, there shall be no cost.
Every non-highway vehicle shall be required to have a permit.
   B.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
Village and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name of insurance carrier and policy number and/or a photocopy of
applicable liability insurance coverage card issued specifically for the non-
highway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      3.   The serial number, make, and model and description of the non-
highway vehicle;
      4.   A certification from the applicant that the non-highway vehicle
satisfies the requirements of this chapter and the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
      5.   Such other information as the Village may require, including a
release and waiver of liability signed by applicant releasing the Village and
its employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the Village harmless,
including the costs of defense, from any and all claims, penalties, costs,
judgments, settlements or causes of action resulting or arising from the
operation of applicant's non-highway vehicle on Village streets.
   C.   Each person operating a non-highway vehicle shall carry the permit
issued by the Village at all times during the operation of said vehicle.
      1.   A permit number will be assigned by the Village. It is the
applicant's responsibility to mark their non-highway vehicle with a three inch
(3") assigned permit number. The permit number must be securely mounted and
unobstructed and visible from the rear. (Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-7: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The Village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the operator of such non-highway vehicle has violated any
provision of this chapter or there is a finding that the applicant or operator
thereof cannot safely operate a non- highway vehicle on Village streets.
   B.   Additionally, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable by payment of a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) plus the Village's
enforcement costs incurred, including its attorney fees, for each offense. Any
second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the Village
permit for a period of no less than one (1) nor more than three (3) years. To
the extent that any violation of this chapter may also constitute a violation
of a criminal statute of the State of Illinois, the violator shall also be
subject to criminal prosecution and all other penalties as permitted by law.
(Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
6-7-8: PROHIBITION OF RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   The use of recreational off-highway vehicles is not authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. 753-17, 2-13-2017)
TITLE 7
Public Ways And Property
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision
7-1-2: Excavations And Trimming Trees
7-1-2-1: Permit Requirements
7-1-2-2: Barricades And Lights
7-1-2-3: Backfilling Excavations
7-1-2-4: Penalties
7-1-3: Encroachments
7-1-1: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the street and alley committee. It shall have supervision over
all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except
traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (Ord.
397B, 11-2-1959)
7-1-2: EXCAVATIONS AND TRIMMING TREES:
7-1-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Excavations: It shall be unlawful to make or cause to be made any
excavation in or across or to tunnel under the curb, gutter or roadway of any
street or sidewalk or any village property within the corporate limits of the
village without having first secured a permit therefor from the village clerk.
      2.   Tree Trimming: It shall be unlawful to trim trees, parts of which
may fall on village sidewalks, streets or other village property without first
having secured a permit therefor from the village clerk. (Ord. 397B, 11-2-1959)
   B.   Approval Required: No permit shall be issued except on approval of a
member of the committee of streets and alleys or on order of the president of
the board of trustees or the chief of police.
   C.   Bond And Insurance: Each application shall be accompanied by a cash
bond or a bond with a corporate surety or such surety as shall be approved by a
member of the committee or the village president or the chief of police. The
bond shall be in such amount, not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), as may be determined and approved by the
member of the committee or the village president or the chief of police, and
shall be conditioned to indemnify the village for any liability, loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same and for the
restoration of the street, alley, sidewalk, curb or gutter or other village
property as hereinafter provided. In addition, each such applicant shall
furnish evidence acceptable to the member of the committee or the village
president or the chief of police of satisfactory public liability insurance in
limits of at least twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for injuries to
each person, fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injuries in each accident
and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for damage to property in each accident,
covering all damages occasioned by or in any manner resulting from such work.
(Ord. 397B, 11-2-1959; amd. 1987 Code)
7-1-2-2: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Before and during construction and excavation and tree trimming, the applicant
shall at all times maintain proper barricades and lights. It shall be unlawful
to disturb or interfere with any such barricades or lights. (Ord. 397B, 11-2-
1959)
7-1-2-3: BACKFILLING EXCAVATIONS:
All excavations shall be promptly backfilled by applicant, and the surface
restored to the exact type of surface and thickness as prior to excavation.
Where the excavation is within the surface area of any street or sidewalk, it
shall be backfilled in the following manner: the trench or excavated area must
be filled by using sand or stone screenings in layers not to exceed six inches
(6") in depth, and each layer shall be thoroughly compacted by wetting with
water and tamping by the use of ramming tools or hand tampers. (Ord. 397B, 11-
2-1959)
7-1-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this section
7-1-2 shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 397B, 11-2-1959)
7-1-3: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, or over any portion of the roadway right
of way.
ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   B.   Encroachments Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained,
an "encroachment" (hereinabove defined), within the limits of the roadway right
of way.
   C.   Limitation Of Application: This section is intended to and shall be in
addition to all other ordinances, rules and regulations concerning
encroachments and shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other
ordinance or part of any ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or
exists. (Ord. 601, 4-12-2000)
ARTICLE A. STREET AND SIDEWALK GRADES
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Base Line
7-1A-2: Grade Points, Establishing Street Grades
7-1A-3: Grades Of Certain Streets And Sidewalks Enumerated
7-1A-1: BASE LINE:
For the purpose of establishing grades in the streets and avenues in the
village, the following line is hereby adopted and shall be taken as the base
line: an imaginary, horizontal line fifty feet (50') below the water table on
the northwest corner of the Presbyterian church to the southeast corner of the
intersection of Walnut Street and South Street in the village. (Ord. 157, 8-5-
1901)
7-1A-2: GRADE POINTS, ESTABLISHING STREET GRADES:
Whenever a point is given by numbers as a grade point, it shall mean such
number of feet and one-hundredths of a foot above the base line established in
and by section
7-1A-1 of this article. The grade of the center of the streets and avenues and
of the outer edge of the respective sidewalks shall be a straight line between
such grade points. (Ord. 157, 8-5-1901)
7-1A-3: GRADES OF CERTAIN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS ENUMERATED:
   A.   Elm Street: The grade of Elm Street at the centerline of said street,
from the south boundary line of block 30, in Lahman's addition, to the south
boundary line of the C. & N.W. railroad grounds, shall be as follows:
      At the intersection with the westerly extension of the south boundary
line of block 30 in Lahman's addition   43.50
      At the intersection with the south line of Lahman Street   45.60
      At the intersection with the north line of Lahman Street   45.70
      At the intersection with the south line of South Street   47.20
      At the intersection with the north line of South Street   47.20
      At a point 340 feet north of the north line of South Street   47.20
      At the intersection with the south boundary line of the C. & N.W.
railroad grounds   45.90
   B.   South Street: The grade of South Street at the centerline of said
street, from the east line of Elm Street to the west line of Walnut Street
shall be as follows:
      At the intersection with the east line of Elm Street   47.20
      At the intersection with the west line of Walnut Street   47.20
   C.   Sidewalks On Elm Street:
      1.   The grade for the outer (easterly) edge of the sidewalk on the west
side of Elm Street, from the north line of South Street to the south boundary
line of the C. & N.W. railroad grounds shall be as follows:
         At the intersection with the north line of South Street   47.10
         At a point 50 feet north of the north line of South Street   48.60
         At a point 250 feet north of the north line of South Street   48.60
         At a point 345 feet north of the north line of South Street   47.70
         At the intersection with the south boundary line of the C. & N.W.
railroad grounds   45.80
      2.   The grade for the outer (westerly) edge of the sidewalk on the east
side of Elm Street from the north line of South Street to the south boundary
line of the C. & N.W. railroad grounds shall be as follows:
         At the intersection with the north line of South Street   47.20
         At the intersection with the south line of the alley in block
10   48.10
         At the intersection with the north line of the alley in block
10   48.40
         At the intersection with the south line of Whitney Street   48.10
         At the intersection with the north line of Whitney Street   47.20
         At a point 340 feet north of the north line of South Street   47.00
         At the intersection with the south boundary line of the C. & N.W.
railroad grounds   45.90
   D.   Other Sidewalk Grades: The grade for the outer edge of sidewalks on all
the beforenamed streets, with exception of those for which special sidewalk
grades are established in subsection C of this section, shall be governed by
and correspond with the grades established for the center of streets in front
of said walks. All walks shall be laid with a pitch of one-fourth inch (1/4")
to the foot, sloping from the property line to the outer edge of the walk.
(Ord. 157, 8-5-1901)
ARTICLE B. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Special Sidewalk Construction Ordinance
7-1B-2: Supervision Of Construction
7-1B-3: Construction Specifications
7-1B-4: Contract For Construction
7-1B-5: Bills For Construction Costs; Special Taxes
7-1B-6: Voluntary Sidewalk Construction Assistance
7-1B-1: SPECIAL SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDINANCE:
Whenever the village president and board of trustees shall provide by ordinance
for the construction of any sidewalk in the village, said ordinance shall
define the location of each sidewalk and prescribe its width and that the cost
thereof, unless otherwise provided in said ordinance, shall be paid by special
taxation of the lot or parcel of land touching upon the line of the sidewalk or
sidewalks in proportion to its respective frontage on said sidewalk. (Ord. 185,
8-6-1906)
7-1B-2: SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION:
The materials for and the construction of all sidewalks shall be under the
supervision and subject to the approval of the committee on streets and alleys.
(Ord. 185, 8-6-1906)
7-1B-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Preparatory to the construction of sidewalks, the surface shall be
brought to a subgrade at a depth of ten inches (10") below the surface of the
sidewalk when finished; upon said subgrade shall be laid a foundation six
inches (6") thick of cinders or sand which shall be flooded and thoroughly
rolled or tamped in such manner as to procure a compact and solid foundation
with a firm and even surface; upon this a concrete foundation three and one-
fourth inches (31/4") thick, after being compressed, shall be laid.
   B.   The concrete shall be composed of one part best Portland cement, two
(2) parts clean, sharp sand, and five (5) parts broken stone or gravel, all by
bulk. The concrete shall be thoroughly mixed and immediately spread in the
walk, compacted by ramming, and divided into blocks to conform to finished
surface and shall be covered with a coat of best Portland cement sufficient to
ensure a perfect union with the wearing surface.
   C.   Upon the concrete base thus prepared there shall be spread immediately
a finish coat three-fourths inch (3/4") thick composed of one part of the best
Portland cement and one part of clean, sharp sand, both by bulk, which shall be
spread, floated and trowelled to a smooth surface and cut into blocks four feet
(4') square before it has begun to set. (Ord. 185, 8-6-1906)
7-1B-4: CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Authority To Issue Contract, Costs: In case of default of the owner or
owners of any lot or parcel of land to construct a sidewalk as required by the
provisions of this article and the special ordinance, the village shall enter
into a contract for the furnishing of said materials and the construction of
said sidewalk, and the cost thereof shall be paid and collected by special
taxation of the lot or parcel of land touching upon the line of the sidewalk in
the manner provided for in the act of the general assembly of the state of
Illinois entitled "an act to provide additional means for the construction of
sidewalks" in force July 1, 1875, as amended 1 .
   B.   Bidding Procedures:
      1.   Contracts Over Five Hundred Dollars: All contracts for the
construction of sidewalks as hereinbefore provided, when the expense thereof
shall exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be let to the lowest
responsible bidder in the following manner:
         a.   Notice For Bids: Notice shall be given by the committee on
streets and alleys of the village by advertisement in some newspaper of general
circulation in the village that bids will be received for the construction of
said sidewalk in accordance with the ordinance therefor. Such notice shall
state the time of opening said bids, not more than ten (10) days and not less
than five (5) days thereafter.
         b.   Guarantee Of Performance: All proposals or bids shall be
accompanied by cash or a check payable to the order of the committee and
certified by a responsible bank for the amount, which shall not be less than
ten percent (10%) of the aggregate of the proposal.
         c.   Contract Approvals: All contracts shall be approved by the
chairman of the street and alley committee.
      2.   Contracts Of Five Hundred Dollars Or Less: All contracts for the
construction of sidewalks when the expense thereof shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or less shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder in the
following manner: notice shall be given by the committee on streets and alleys
by posting four (4) notices in the vicinity of the proposed sidewalk. Such
notice shall state that bids will be received for the construction of said
sidewalk and the time of opening said bids, not more than ten (10) nor less
than five (5) days thereafter. (Ord. 185, 8-6-1906)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-84-1 et seq.
7-1B-5: BILLS FOR CONSTRUCTION COSTS; SPECIAL TAXES:
   A.   Bills Filed; Special Taxes Assessed: Within thirty (30) days after the
construction of the sidewalk or sidewalks provided for by the special ordinance
in pursuance of the contract made as aforesaid, a bill of the cost of such
sidewalk showing in separate items the cost of construction and supervision
thereof, a list of the lots or parcels of land touching upon the line of said
sidewalk or sidewalks, the names of the parties who paid the last general taxes
on the respective lots and parcels and the frontage of each lot and parcel of
land, shall be prepared by the street and alley committee of the village and
filed in its office, and thereupon, if the owner of any lot, block, tract or
parcel of land has failed, neglected or refused to construct said sidewalk or
sidewalks in accordance with the provisions of this article and the special
ordinance, the street and alley committee shall prepare a special tax list
against said lots, blocks, tracts and parcels of land in front of or touching
upon which the sidewalk has not been constructed, ascertaining by computation
the amount of special tax to be charged against each of said lots, blocks,
tracts and parcels of land on account of the construction of the sidewalk
according to the frontage thereof, which tax list shall be filed in the office
of the street and alley committee within thirty (30) days after the filing of
the bill of the cost. The street and alley committee shall thereupon issue
warrants directed to the village treasurer for the collection of the amounts of
special tax so ascertained and appearing from said tax list to be due from the
respective lots, blocks and parcels of land touching upon the line of the
sidewalk, and the treasurer shall proceed to collect the warrants in the manner
provided by law.
   B.   Authority To Collect Special Tax: The village treasurer is hereby
designated and authorized to make collection of this special tax so levied as
aforesaid.
   C.   Unpaid Special Taxes, Report To County: Upon the failure to collect
such special tax, the village treasurer shall, on or before April 1 of each
year, make out a report of all unpaid special taxes in writing to the county
collector of Lee County and of all lots or parcels of land upon which such
special tax shall be unpaid, with the names of the respective owners thereof,
so far as the same are known to the treasurer, together with the amount due and
unpaid upon each tract and a copy of this article and of the special ordinance
ordering the construction of the sidewalks, which said report shall be
accompanied by the oath of the officer that the list is a correct return of the
lots and parcels of land on which the special tax remains due and unpaid and
that the amounts therein stated, nor any part thereof, have not been collected.
(Ord. 185, 8-6-1906)
7-1B-6: VOLUNTARY SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Sidewalk assistance construction funds are provided upon the condition
of their availability. The village board is under no obligation to provide
assistance beyond specified allocations, and may discontinue the assistance
program at any time, being obligated only to fund previously approved
applications. Applications for assistance must be presented in writing prior to
construction.
   B.   Qualifying sidewalks must be public walkways lying along village
streets. (Sidewalks from buildings or structures to or away from the public
walkways do not qualify for village assistance.) Basic sidewalk assistance
incentive is established at one dollar ($1.00) per square foot (August 1,
1994). Projects requiring five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more assistance
must be submitted to the village board for prior approval. No more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be approved per site (separate property tax
parcel) per calendar year. The village streets and alleys supervisor shall
inspect all projects when application for assistance is made and after
construction to insure uniformity and compliance prior to release of assistance
funds.
   C.   Sidewalks constructed along public ways within the village must meet
the following minimum standards established by the village board to be eligible
for assistance funding:
      1.   Concrete shall be of a six (6) bag per cubic yard quality.
      2.   Minimum concrete shall be four (4) mean inches thick expanded to six
(6) mean inches in areas crossed by vehicular traffic.
      3.   Minimum width shall be forty eight inches (48"), expanded to sixty
inches (60") in areas requiring handicap accessibility.
      4.   All new sidewalks must meet old sidewalks at grade level.
      5.   Sidewalk surfaces must be within one inch (1") of level of
surrounding area.
      6.   Sidewalk surface must have a downward slope to the outside (toward
street) of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot width.
      7.   Break joints shall be placed each four (4) running feet and
expansion joints as needed. (Ord. 560, 7-11-1994)
ARTICLE C. OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
7-1C-1: Declared
7-1C-2: Impediments
7-1C-3: Permit Required
7-1C-4: Violation And Penalty
7-1C-5: Abatement
7-1C-1: DECLARED:
It shall be unlawful for an owner, occupant, lessee, or agent in possession or
control of property to place, park, or otherwise allow any obstruction of any
kind that results in impeding the free flow of traffic on public roadways
within the village, without a permit from the village authorities. Such
impediments include, but are not limited to, inoperable motor vehicles,
unattached trailers, and trash receptacles and/or dumpsters. (Ord. 672-06, 1-8-
2007)
7-1C-2: IMPEDIMENTS:
   A.   Garbage Receptacles And/Or Dumpsters: A garbage receptacle and/or
dumpster may be placed at the edge of a public roadway if it is being utilized
to dispose of garbage due to construction, remodeling, or demolition, and if:
      1.   There is insufficient space on the property that is being served by
the use of the unit;
      2.   A permit has been issued by the village zoning officer to the
property owner or occupant of the property that is being served by the unit;
      3.   It is placed at least one hundred feet (100') from any intersection;
      4.   It is placed immediately adjacent to the boundary of the property
that is being served by the unit;
      5.   It is not placed on any portion of another property owner's land,
unless that property owner has given written permission to the property owner
or occupant seeking the placement of the unit;
      6.   It is located so as not to impair or obstruct the sightline of
traffic;
      7.   It does not reduce the width of the public roadway for travel to
less than twenty four feet (24');
      8.   Appropriate safety markings, symbols, or signs are applied to the
unit at its corners located closest to public roadways; and
      9.   All garbage is placed fully within the walls of the unit and it does
not release noxious or offensive odors. (Ord. 672-06, 1-8-2007)
7-1C-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A permit may be issued by the village zoning officer to an owner,
occupant, lessee, or agent in possession or control of property.
   B.   A permit may be issued for no more than twenty one (21) consecutive
days.
   C.   A permit may, but is not required to, be renewed by the village zoning
officer.
   D.   The cost of a permit shall be fifty dollars ($50.00), and there shall
be no charge for renewal of a permit.
   E.   An application for a permit hereunder shall state the period of time
for which the unit will be utilized, the type of unit which will be utilized,
and the name, address, and phone number of the person applying for such permit.
(Ord. 672-06, 1-8-2007)
7-1C-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating this provision shall be fined not less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation is found to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. A violation of this provision shall result in the immediate
revocation of a permit issued hereunder. (Ord. 672-06, 1-8-2007)
7-1C-5: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Summary Abatement: The village president may summarily order the police
or other village official or contracted private business to immediately remedy
a violation of this article whenever it is the opinion of the village president
that the violation creates the imminent threat of serious injury to persons or
serious damage to property.
   B.   Nonsummary Abatement:
      1.   The village president or any police officer of the village may serve
or cause to be served a notice in writing upon any owner, occupant, lessee or
agent in possession or control of any real or personal property within the
limits of the village, or notice may be affixed to the property upon which a
violation exists; and the notice shall specifically state the nature of the
violation and shall inform the person so notified to remedy the violation
within a specified time as may be reasonable.
      2.   If the person so notified does not remedy the violation within the
specified time, the village president is authorized to:
         a.   Order village employees to remedy the violation or to contract
for it to be done privately.
         b.   Authorize the village attorney to seek an injunction and other
relief of the continuation of the violation in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
         c.   Seek such other and further relief as may be provided by law.
   C.   Abatement Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incurred in
remedying a violation of this article, whether summary or nonsummary, and
whether incurred by the village or any contracted private business, shall be
paid by the owner of the property upon which such violation exists, and any
occupant, lessee and agent in possession or control of the property shall be
jointly and severally liable. The village or contracted private business may
collect by judgment and may file a notice of lien in the office of the county
recorder of deeds, which notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out
a description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof, the
amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred or payable for the
service, and the date or dates when such costs or expenses were incurred by the
village. (Ord. 672-06, 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL WATER AND SEWER
ARTICLE A. COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Systems Combined
7-2A-1: SYSTEMS COMBINED:
The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, and the
proposed sanitary sewerage system of the village in its entirety, together with
all additions, improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made,
are hereby declared to be a combined system, and said combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall be maintained and operated as a single utility, and a
charge or rate shall be established for the use of such combined system which
shall be reasonable and commensurate with the service performed by said
combined system, and shall be sufficient to maintain, operate, provide an
adequate depreciation fund and pay the principal and interest on any revenue
bonds which may be issued, which by their terms are made payable from the
revenues of such combined system. (Ord. 392, 5-4-1959)
ARTICLE B. WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-2B-1: Sewer And Water Committee
7-2B-2: Responsibility For Waterworks System, Authority To Abandon Mains
7-2B-3: Service Connections And Repairs
7-2B-4: Meters
7-2B-5: Use Of Fire Hydrants
7-2B-6: Unlawful Use Of Water
7-2B-7: Cross Connections
7-2B-7-1: Definitions
7-2B-7-2: Compliance With Existing Laws
7-2B-7-3: Cross Connections Prohibited
7-2B-7-4: Local Cross Connection Control Program
7-2B-7-5: Existing Cross Connections
7-2B-7-6: Secondary Water Sources
7-2B-7-7: Inspections
7-2B-7-8: Discontinuance Of Water Service
7-2B-8: Shutting Off Water
7-2B-9: Authority To Change Rates And Regulations
7-2B-1: SEWER AND WATER COMMITTEE:
A committee of three (3) village trustees shall be appointed annually by the
president of the board to be known as the sewer and water committee, and said
committee shall have the supervision, control and management, subject to the
board, of the maintenance, enlargement and operation of the waterworks system
of the village, the extension of such system, the selling of water therefrom
and the preservation of the property thereunto belonging. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940;
amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATERWORKS SYSTEM, AUTHORITY TO ABANDON MAINS:
All water mains, service pipes, hydrants, shutoff valves, cocks and connections
lying and being within any street or alley in the village shall belong to and
be supplied and maintained by the village only and the village shall have the
right at any time to abandon or replace any part of such system. In case of any
such abandonment of a water main, the village shall connect the property to be
supplied with water by means of a suitable main or service pipe extending from
the nearest water main to the lot line of the property. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940;
amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-3: SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND REPAIRS:
   A.   Water Service Connections: The sewer and water department will make the
necessary service connection at the water main, the cost of which is to be paid
by the owner or contractor. The cost is to be regulated by the sewer and water
department in accordance with the prevailing cost of labor 1  and materials at
the time of installation or replacement. The owner shall lay and maintain the
service pipe from the water main to the premises and shall install on every
service pipe a curb stop and curb box as specified by the sewer and water
department. (Ord. 509, 12-3-1984; amd. 1987 Code)
All water connections shall be made only by a licensed plumber of the state.
(Ord. 327, 1-2-1940)
   B.   Repairs: When a leak or break occurs in a water service anywhere
between the water main and the premises, the property owner is responsible for
repair or replacement. If the property owner has not taken any action within
twenty four (24) hours after the owner has been notified, the sewer and water
department shall disconnect the service.
   C.   Street Excavations: The responsibility of the owner, whether in new
construction or in repair and replacement of water service, shall include the
cost of repairing any village street required to be excavated for said
installation or repairs. (Ord. 509, 12-3-1984; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-8-2 of this code.
7-2B-4: METERS:
No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer or water taker (except
when purchased or taken from the fire hydrants direct, as provided in section
7-2B-5 of this article) unless the same be measured and registered by a water
meter.
   A.   Responsibility For Meters, Approvals: All water meters shall be
provided and owned by the village, and any such meter may be obtained from the
village but shall at all times be subject to the approval and inspection of the
sewer and water committee.
No new water meter shall be installed without the prior approval of the sewer
and water committee thereof. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940; amd. 1987 Code)
   B.   Reading Meters: The meters shall be read quarter-yearly by the
superintendent of water and sewer department. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940; amd. Ord.,
7-7-1986)
   C.   Meters In Buildings With Multiple Users:
      1.   Houses or housing units containing two (2) or more dwelling units,
or buildings containing two (2) or more separate water users, shall be supplied
with separate meters for each dwelling unit or water service user occupying the
building, unless the building owner shall, in writing, request the use of one
common meter. In the latter case, the owner and each user shall be jointly
liable for the whole meter charge and the collector shall not be required to
apportion such charges in any event. The village shall be under no obligation
to alter existing metering devices in place on the date of adoption of
ordinance 96-573.
      2.   Buildings containing more than two (2) dwelling units or water
service users supplied with one common meter for all units in the building
shall have a rate determined by assessing one-half (1/2) the minimum rate for
individual users, as established in subsection 7-2D-2A of this chapter, per
using unit in the building combined with water used above one thousand (1,000)
cubic feet charged at the rate established in subsection 7-2D-2A of this
chapter.
      3.   Each metered supply line to a water service customer shall have a
control device (valve) installed in the supply line directly preceding each
meter for the purpose of turning on or shutting off water supply. When a
commercial or residential building, serving more than one water service
customer, is served by one or more metered service lines, each metered service
line shall have such a device installed directly preceding the meter for the
purpose of removal and replacement of said meter as necessary. (Ord. 96-573, 4-
8-1996, eff. 5-1-1996)
   D.   Meters To Be Sealed, Tampering With Prohibited: All meters shall be
properly sealed by the chief of police and they shall be kept free from
breakage or injury, and any breakage of or tampering with such seal of such
water meter shall be punishable, upon conviction thereof, with a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, or with the shutting off of water to the said property, or
both. (1987 Code)
7-2B-5: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Water may be drawn from any of the hydrants in the streets in case of
fire by the Franklin Grove fire protection district of Lee and Ogle Counties.
Sales for private use for construction, sprinkling or other purposes may also
be made from any fire hydrant at the appropriate meter rates, as measured by
the village.
   B.   No person shall open or interfere with the fire hydrants without
permission of the sewer and water committee. (1987 Code)
7-2B-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
Any person taking water from the system without paying the rates specified in
article D of this chapter or without the prior permission of the sewer and
water committee as to those taking the same hereafter for properties not
heretofore served, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
7-2B-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply:
BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants entering
a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
CROSS CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance in
which a backflow could occur.
SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe but shall not be less than one inch
(1") and need not be more than twelve inches (12").
SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground
or surface sources not meeting the requirements of act 98 of the public acts of
1913, as amended, being sections 325.201 to 325.214 of the compiled laws of
1948, or water from a public water supply which in any way has been treated,
processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an
approved storage facility.
SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water supply
terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain water of
questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is unprotected
against backflow.
WATER UTILITY: The village of Franklin Grove sewer and water department. (Ord.
488, 11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7-2: COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS:
A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with the existing
laws and rules and the provisions of the ordinances of the village. (Ord. 488,
11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
Cross connections of the public water supply system and any other water supply
system or source, including, but not limited to, the following, are prohibited:
   A.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
   B.   By submerged inlet.
   C.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system.
   D.   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
   E.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant. (Ord. 488, 11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7-4: LOCAL CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
The village has adopted all provisions of section
7-2B-7 as its comprehensive control program for the elimination and prevention
of all cross connections, removal of all existing cross connections and
prevention of all future cross connections to the village water supply.
   A.   Plumbing of each new service shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois state plumbing code.
   B.   Water customers shall correct plumbing code violations which are a
threat to the public water supply whenever such violations are discovered.
Corrective measures pertaining to established cross connections shall be
applicable.
   C.   The village water and sewer committee chairman shall conduct, or cause
to be conducted, an initial survey of new water services and a survey of all
water services every two (2) years. This survey shall be used to develop an
inventory of the way the customers use water. Where potentially hazardous
conditions are suspected, the water customer shall be requested to have a
licensed plumber, who has been approved as a backflow control device inspector,
either:
      1.   Inspect the plumbing and test and maintain all cross connection
control devices annually.
      2.   Install a fixed air gap or a reduced pressure zone (RPZ) backflow
preventer on the service line to the premises. This air gap or RPZ must be
maintained, inspected and tested annually.
   D.   A written record of the village cross connection surveys shall be
maintained which includes:
      1.   The name and location of each customer required to have an annual
inspection.
      2.   The date each cross connection device was installed.
      3.   The annual test results for each cross connection control device and
a summary of any repairs and changes made. (Ord. 565, 7-10-1995)
7-2B-7-5: EXISTING CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Elimination Of Existing Cross Connections: Within one year from the
effective date hereof, all existing cross connections to the village water
supply systems shall be eliminated. The expenses of such elimination shall be
that of the owner of the property on which such cross connection exists.
If the cross connection has not been removed within the time as herein
specified, the village shall physically separate the village water supply from
the on site piping system in such manner that the two (2) systems cannot be
connected by any unauthorized person.
   B.   Corrections And Protective Devices: Any user of the village water
supply shall obtain written approval from the sewer and water department of any
proposed corrective action or protective device before using or installing it.
The total time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall be
contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include the time required to
obtain and install equipment. (Ord. 488, 11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7-6: SECONDARY WATER SOURCES:
   A.   Piping Identification: When a secondary water source is used in
addition to the village water supply, exposed village water and secondary water
piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained
that each pipe may be readily traced in its entirety. It will be necessary to
protect the village water supply at the service connection in a manner
acceptable to the sewer and water department.
   B.   Private Water Storage Tanks: A private water storage tank supplied from
the village water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless
it is designed and approved for potable water usage. (Ord. 488, 11-3-1980; amd.
1987 Code)
7-2B-7-7: INSPECTIONS:
The village sewer and water department or any representative thereof, shall
have the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of an
existing cross connection and to order the elimination of such cross
connection. (Ord. 488, 11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-7-8: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
The sewer and water department is hereby authorized to discontinue water
service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a
cross connection in violation of this section exists. The sewer and water
department may take such other precautionary measures as necessary to eliminate
any danger of the contamination of the village water supply systems. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such cross connection has
been eliminated. (Ord. 488, 11-3-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2B-8: SHUTTING OFF WATER:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Service: The rules, regulations and water rates
herein named shall be considered a part of the contract with every person
supplied with water through such waterworks system, and binding upon such water
users, and whenever any of such rules, regulations or rates shall be violated
by any such users, then the water shall be shut off from the building or place
of such violation and shall not be let on again except by order of the
committee and upon the payment of the expense of shutting off and turning on
such water, which charge shall be as provided in article D of this chapter, and
the further payment of any water rate charge which may then be in arrears, as
against such property. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940; amd. Ord. 395B, 6-1-1959)
   B.   Authority To Shut Off Water: In case of fire or fire alarm, or in
making repairs, replacements, extensions or making later connections to the
mains, pipes or water plant, the village reserves the right to shut off the
water at once with or without notice to users as long as may be necessary.
(Ord. 327, 1-2-1940)
7-2B-9: AUTHORITY TO CHANGE RATES AND REGULATIONS:
The village reserves the right at any time to change the water rates or
regulations. (Ord. 327, 1-2-1940)
ARTICLE C. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-2C-1: Definitions
7-2C-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-2C-3: Private Systems
7-2C-4: Building Sewers And Connections
7-2C-4-1: Permit Requirements
7-2C-4-2: Separate Sewers Required
7-2C-4-3: Use Of Old Building Sewers
7-2C-4-4: Construction Specifications
7-2C-4-5: Building Sewer Connections
7-2C-4-6: Sewage Lift
7-2C-4-7: Excavations
7-2C-4-8: Surface Runoff
7-2C-4-9: Liability For Costs And Damages
7-2C-5: Discharge Of Effluent
7-2C-6: Prohibited Substances
7-2C-7: Materials Under Special Review
7-2C-8: Interceptors
7-2C-9: Preliminary Treatment
7-2C-10: Industrial Wastes
7-2C-11: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-2C-12: Special Agreements
7-2C-13: Industrial Cost Recovery
7-2C-14: Property Damage
7-2C-15: Inspections
7-2C-16: Violations And Penalties
7-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended, 33 USC.
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The president and board of trustees of the village acting
by and through the sewer and water committee, or the person designated by it,
being its duly authorized agent or representative.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system for operation, maintenance and replacement.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge beginning ten feet (10') (3.0 m) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal
coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for a village representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of revenue bonds outstanding and shall be
computed by dividing the annual debt service charge by the number of users
connected to the wastewater facilities.
DIRECTOR: The chief administrative officer of the state of Illinois
environmental protection agency.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: Recovery from the industrial uses of a treatment
works of the grant amount allocable to treatment of wastes from such users
pursuant to section 204(b) of PL 92-500 and 40 CFR part 35.928(1) and (2).
INDUSTRIAL USER: For the purposes of industrial cost recovery, shall mean any
nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works identified in the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual", 1972, office of management and
budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
   Division A   -   Agriculture, forestry and fishing
   Division B   -   Mining
   Division D   -   Manufacturing
   Division E   -   Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services
   Division I   -   Services
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the sewer
and water committee that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
Industrial user, for the purpose of developing the user charge system, may be a
manufacturing or process facility which is engaged in a productive and profit
making enterprise.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INFILTRATION: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and inflow
without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders; cellar, yard
and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains
from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. (Inflow does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.)
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday; b) has a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; c) has in its waste a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the act; or d) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment
works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon
the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand (1,000)
milliliter of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
NPDES PERMIT: A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States, pursuant to section 402 of PL 92-500.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: All costs, direct and indirect, (other than
debt service) to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis,
conforming with related federal, state and local requirements, and assuring
optimal long term facility management. (These costs include depreciation and
replacement.)
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution. It shall be determined by one of the
procedures outlined in standard methods.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is evaluated as the
equivalent of the highest of three (3) parameters. Impact on a stream is the
higher of the BOD/suspended solids parameters.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction into
the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer dedicated to or provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the village consisting of collector sewer, interceptor sewer,
forcemain and pumping station. It shall also include sewers within or outside
the village boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge
into the village sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have
been constructed with village funds.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL USER, NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this section.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices, structures and equipment
for treating sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SEWER AND WATER COMMITTEE: Refers to a committee of three (3) trustees
appointed annually by the president of the village board. The sewer and water
committee shall have the supervision, control and management, subject to the
village board, of the maintenance, enlargement and operation of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the village, and the extension of such system
and the selling of water therefrom and the preservation of the property
thereunto belonging.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
and expenses incurred in the operation of the sewerage system.
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory. May is permissible.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY: Any industry that will contribute greater than ten
percent (10%) of the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the
treatment works.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial wastes which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage
And Industrial Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Federation of Sewage
and Industrial Wastes Association.
STATE ACT: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970 1 .
STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works and provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of the state of
Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person appointed by the village president and board of
trustees from time to time to oversee and/or perform the operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established as representative of normal
sewage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial wastes and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date of start up of any
wastewater facilities constructed with a federal or state grant.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of waterworks and treatment works
facilities for the cost of operation and maintenance including replacement of
such works and the cost of any bond debt of such works and shall consist of
both basic user charges, surcharges and industrial charges, if any.
USER CLASS: The type of user, either "residential or commercial" or
"industrial", as defined herein.
VILLAGE: The village of Franklin Grove, and any reference to "within the
village" shall mean all territory within the perimeter of the village of
Franklin Grove boundaries.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per quarterly period levied on all users
of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined
in article D of this chapter, and shall consist of the total of the basic user
charge and surcharge, if applicable.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used as synonymous
with "wastewater treatment plant" or "sewage treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
7-2C-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Unlawful Deposition Of Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable
waste.
   B.   Unlawful Discharge Of Wastes: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet, watercourse or storm sewer within the village or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this article.
   C.   Unlawful Construction Of Private Facilities: Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Mandatory Sewer Hook Up: The owner of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way
in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary
sewer of the village, is hereby required, at his expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in a manner approved by the superintendent or his
representative, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the official notice
to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100')
(30.5 m) of the property line. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-3: PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
Where a sanitary sewer of the village is not available under the provisions of
subsection 7-2C-2D of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a permit signed by the
sewer and water committee.
      2.   Application For Permits: The application for such permit shall be
made to the sewer and water committee on a special form furnished by the
village and shall be accompanied by plans, specifications and such other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the sewer and water
committee.
      3.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
representative of the sewer and water department. He shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the representative of the water and sewer
department when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within four (4)
hours of the receipt of notice by the representative of the water and sewer
department, except for Sundays and holidays.
   B.   System Design:
      1.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of Illinois
private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and with the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing insufficient subsurface soil absorption facilities.
      3.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into any
public sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Connection To Sanitary Sewer Required: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as
provided in subsection 7-2C-2D of this article, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer of the village within ninety (90) days, in compliance
with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   D.   Operation Of Private Systems: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the village.
   E.   Additional Requirements: No provision of this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the county board of health. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-2C-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
7-2C-4-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   B.   Classes Of Permits; Application: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: for residential and commercial service, and for service
to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the sewer and water committee. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   C.   Restrictions On Permits: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980;
amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-2: SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED:
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building,
except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-3: USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the representative of the sewer and water
department, to meet all requirements of this article. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd.
1987 Code)
7-2C-4-4: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes 1  or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
material and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American
Society of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation Manual Of
Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" shall apply. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
7-2C-4-5: BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection Specifications: The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the
procedures set forth in the appropriate specifications of the American Society
of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice
No. 9", and "Standards Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois". All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
sewer and water committee before installation.
   B.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the representative of the sewer and water department when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The sewer lateral from
the property line to the village sewer main shall remain uncovered for
inspection and the connection shall be made under the supervision of the
representative of the sewer and water department or his representative. (Ord.
483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-6: SEWAGE LIFT:
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with subsection 7-2C-4-1A of this article and discharged to the
building sewer. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-7: EXCAVATIONS:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village at no expense to
the village. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-8: SURFACE RUNOFF:
   A.   The maintenance and connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer is prohibited.
   B.   Existing roof drains, footing tile or other illegal connections to the
public sanitary sewers shall be disconnected from said sewer within one year
after written notice from the village to do such work. The expense of such work
shall be paid by the property owner. The superintendent shall determine if the
disconnection has been made in a satisfactory fashion.
   C.   Existing roof drains discharging at the foundation wall shall be
extended by a suitable means, as approved by the superintendent, to a point at
least six feet (6') away from the foundation wall. This work shall be done and
paid for by the owner. All such roof drains must be extended away from the
footing wall within six (6) months after written notice from the village to do
such work. All new homes must provide the extended roof drains as a part of the
construction phase.
   D.   Violators may be subject to fines per section
7-2C-16 of this article. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-4-9: LIABILITY FOR COSTS AND DAMAGES:
   A.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the property to be served or
the applicant for the service.
   B.   The owner or applicant shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   C.   All connections shall be authorized only when the same shall not damage
or interfere with the use of the village sewer system by other users of the
system.
   D.   The person making the connections shall be liable for the cost of any
lift station and shall not install any sewer or make a connection which shall
overload an existing lift station without making provisions for increased
capacity of the lift station sufficient to accommodate the use of the sewer to
be connected. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-5: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
   A.   Discharge Into Sanitary Sewers Prohibited: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Use Of Storm Sewers And Combined Sewers: Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved
by the representative of the sewer and water department. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
representative of the sewer and water department to a storm sewer or natural
outlet. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
   C.   Unlawful Storm Water Drain Connection:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect
or cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or device
discharging polluting substances, to any storm water drain in the village of
Franklin Grove.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating this subsection C shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or
exists. (Ord. 600, 4-12-2000)
7-2C-6: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-7: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the sewer and water committee, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the sewer and water committee.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the sewer and water committee for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the sewer and water committee as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the sewer and water committee
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the sewer and water committee in compliance
with applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the sewer and water committee in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the sewer and water committee.
   B.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection A of this section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA rules
and regulations, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the
sewer and water committee may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the sewer and water committee may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection 7-2C-11B of this article.
If the sewer and water committee permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the sewer and water committee, and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord.
483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-8: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
sewer and water committee, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the sewer and water committee and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-9: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be continuously maintained in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-10: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
Each new industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the sewer and water committee, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial and/or domestic wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the sewer and water committee. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at
all times. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-11: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the sewer and water committee or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type
and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as
stipulated by the sewer and water committee, but no less than once per year the
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and local standards
are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the sewer and water committee at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by said committee. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the sewer and water committee.
At such times as deemed necessary, the sewer and water committee reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory.
   B.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-12: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-13: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the village
has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
   A.   Meets the requirements of section 204(b)(a)(B) of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972 and applicable federal regulations.
   B.   Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the village by the United States environmental protection
agency or by the state of Illinois for the construction of any part of the
sewer system or sewage treatment works of the village. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980;
amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-14: PROPERTY DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 483, 4-7-
1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-15: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Entry Powers:
      1.   The representative of the sewer and water department, superintendent
and other duly authorized employees of the village, the Illinois environmental
protection agency and the U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this article. The representative of the sewer
and water department, superintendent or his representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   The representative of the sewer and water department, superintendent
and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials
and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
   B.   Disclaimer Of Liability: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A1 of this section, the representative of
the sewer and water department, superintendent or duly authorized employees of
the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S.
environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by village employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in section
7-2C-11 of this article. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
7-2C-16: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article, except section
7-2C-12 of this article, shall be served by the village with a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Permit Revocations: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this article.
   C.   Liability Of Violator: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this article shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
   D.   Penalties: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 483, 4-7-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
ARTICLE D. WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-2D-1: Application For Service Required
7-2D-2: Rates And Charges
7-2D-3: Liability For Charges
7-2D-3-1: Water And Sewer Bills For Multi-Family Dwellings
7-2D-4: Billing Procedure
7-2D-5: Disposition Of Revenues
7-2D-6: Books And Accounts
7-2D-7: Rules And Regulations
7-2D-8: Enforcement
7-2D-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE REQUIRED:
No person shall make any connection to the water main or the sewer main of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village except upon written
application to the village clerk and upon issuance of a permit for such
connection by said clerk. Each application shall state the name of the
applicant, the permit desired, the location to be used; and each application
shall contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper
guidance of the village officials in the issuing of the permit. (Ord. 517, 7-7-
1986)
7-2D-2: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Water Service And Sewer Customer Charges: Water service and sewer
customers will be charged a fee as set by the governing body of the village.
For sewer customers that are unmetered, the fee will also be set by the
governing body of the village. (Ord. 622-02, 6-10-2002, eff. 7-1-2002; amd.
Ord. 676-06, 12-11-2006, eff. 1-7-2007)
   B.   Water Deposits: All new connections customers are required to deposit
the sum of one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) for and as a water deposit.
Deposits are due on the date of water service connection. If the deposit is not
paid within thirty (30) days of the connection date, then the water shall be
shut off and water service terminated. If the water service is terminated
because of failure to pay required deposit or due to a delinquent bill, the
customer will be assessed a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for turning the
water off. In addition, the customer will be assessed a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) to have water service restored. Once service is terminated,
all delinquent amounts and service fees must be paid before water service can
be restored. (Ord. 568, 7-10-1995; amd. Ord. 631-03, 3-10-2003, eff. 4-1-2003)
      1.   Deposits paid by tenant customers for service to rental properties
shall be retained by the village for the term of the lease agreement. Deposits
shall be applied to final bills with remaining balances returned to customers.
      2.   Deposits paid by property owner customers shall be retained by the
village until four (4) continuous quarters of timely water and sewer service
payments have been made. Following the four (4) quarters of continuous timely
payments the deposit shall be returned to the depositor or his agent or may be
applied as a credit to the account for payment at the discretion of the
depositor. The deposit may be waived for property owners with good credit
histories moving from one service address to another within the village.
   C.   Water And Sewer New Connection Charges:
      1.   Water Service Connection And Inspection: Applicants for water supply
connection either within or without the corporate limits of the village shall
pay connection charges of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for connection to the
village water supply system. In addition to all other charges set forth herein,
an inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is required at the time the
connection charge is paid.
      2.   Sanitary Sewer System Connection And Inspection: Applicants for
sanitary sewer system connection either within or without the corporate limits
of the village shall pay connection charges of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for connection to the village sanitary sewer system. In addition to all other
charges set forth herein, an inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is
required at the time the connection charge is paid.
   D.   Meter Validity Checks: When a service customer raises a question
concerning the accuracy of a village water metering device, and requests that
the metering device be checked, the metering device will be removed and tested
for accuracy by village employees of the water and sewer department.
      1.   If the metering device is found to be faulty it will be repaired
and/or replaced at no cost to the service customer.
      2.   If the metering device is found to be accurate a service fee of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) will be assessed for removal, testing and
reinstallation of the metering device.
      3.   Testing of special use meters for which the village does not possess
appropriate testing equipment will be charged on an actual cost basis as
charged by an outside testing service when testing reflects that meters are
working properly.
      4.   The village reserves the right to remove, test, reinstall or replace
metering devices on the water supply system at its own discretion. (Ord. 568,
7-10-1995)
7-2D-3: LIABILITY FOR CHARGES:
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on such premises
and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the service are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the village. The rates and charges for
water and sewer hereunder shall be a lien against the premises so served and
said lien shall remain with the property until paid in full. (Ord. 533, 10-2-
1989)
7-2D-3-1: WATER AND SEWER BILLS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   The owner of any multi-family residential dwelling or multi-user
commercial building shall be responsible for the payment of all water and sewer
fees associated with said unit due to the village of Franklin Grove on behalf
of himself, or any lessee, or other possessor of such unit.
      1.   No water or sewer service shall be provided to any multi-family
residential dwelling or multi-user commercial building until a person as the
owner or agent thereof shall execute an agreement in a form provided by the
village assuming personal responsibility for the cost of any water and sewer
services by himself or any lessee.
      2.   Any person having signed an agreement as provided herein shall
remain liable pursuant to said agreement until another person shall assume said
liability by executing a new agreement in a form provided by the village.
      3.   Failure to pay any water or sewer service within fifteen (15) days
of the due date shall result in a disconnection of all such services.
   B.   Upon transfer of ownership of said units it shall be the responsibility
of the seller(s) to notify the village clerk of identity and whereabouts of the
new owner(s).
   C.   Unless otherwise stated herein, a separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed when transfer of ownership has taken place and the village
clerk has not been notified within ten (10) working days of sale or transfer.
   D.   A person found in violation of this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). In addition to fines the chairman of the water
and sewer committee may order the discontinuation of water and sewer services
to the property. (Ord. 675-06, 1-8-2007, eff. 3-1-2007)
7-2D-4: BILLING PROCEDURE:
All water, sewer and garbage 1  bills will be mailed on January 20, April 20,
July 20 and October 20. All sums are due and payable at the Franklin Grove Bank
no later than the fifth day of the month following mailing. All bills not paid
by their due date will be assessed a late penalty in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the total amount owed on the bill. All bills not paid within thirty
(30) days of the date the bill was mailed will be subject to termination and
once the water, sewer and garbage service is terminated, such services will not
be restored until the other provisions of this article are fulfilled, including
payment of the bill and all penalties. (Ord. 517, 7-7-1986; amd. Ord. 662-05,
11-14-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
7-2D-5: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   Funds To Be Kept Separate: All revenues and monies derived from the
operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by the
village clerk separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart
from all other funds of the village, and all of said sums, without any
deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the village treasurer not more
than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the village president and
board of trustees.
   B.   Waterworks And Sewerage Fund: The village treasurer shall receive all
such revenues from the combined waterworks and sewerage system and all the
funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be
delivered to him and deposit the same in a separate fund designated as the
waterworks and sewerage fund of the village and the treasurer shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by the provisions of the
Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 395B, 6-1-1959)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-139 et seq.
7-2D-6: BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS:
The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage system. (Ord. 395B, 6-1-
1959)
7-2D-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The president and board of trustees are hereby authorized to make such rules
and regulations consistent with this article for the connection and charges to
the waterworks and sewerage system and for garbage charges, and also specifying
penalties for failure to pay the assessed fees. (Ord. 517, 7-7-1986)
7-2D-8: ENFORCEMENT:
A copy of this article, properly certified by the village clerk, shall be filed
in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lee County, and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service supplied to
any user of the service of the combined waterworks, sewerage and garbage system
of the village on their properties, and it shall be the duty of the village
clerk and such other officers of the village to take all action necessary or
required by the laws of the state thereunto enabling to file all claims and
liens for money due to the village and to prosecute and enforce such claims in
the manner, form and time as permitted by laws of the state. (Ord. 517, 7-7-
1986)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE C. BEES
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Keeping Bees Prohibited
5-1C-2: Beehives Declared A Nuisance
5-1C-3: Penalty
5-1C-1: KEEPING BEES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor any bees in the village. (Ord. 445, 8-7-
1972)
5-1C-2: BEEHIVES DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any beehive used or occupied by bees is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
it shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any such hive in the village. (Ord.
445, 8-7-1972)
5-1C-3: PENALTY:
Whoever shall be guilty of keeping or harboring bees or keeping or maintaining
any beehive in violation of this article, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 445, 8-7-1972)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Dangerous Conditions To Be Remedied; Appeals
8-2-2: Notice Of Dangerous Condition Served
8-2-3: Failure To Comply
8-2-4: Penalties
8-2-1: DANGEROUS CONDITIONS TO BE REMEDIED; APPEALS:
   A.   Whenever the chief of the fire protection district or any officer or
member thereof shall find any building or other structure in the village which
shall have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) of the value thereof or which, for want of proper repair or by
reason of age and dilapidated condition, defective or poorly installed electric
wiring and equipment, defective chimneys, defective gas connections, defective
heating apparatus, or for any cause, is especially liable for fire and which is
so situated as to endanger other buildings or property, or so occupied that
fire would endanger persons or property therein, such officer shall order and
direct the owner or occupant thereof to repair or tear down, demolish and
remove such building or structure and to remedy all dangerous conditions
existing on said premises.
   B.   If such officer shall find in any building or upon any premises or
other place, combustible material or explosive matter, or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish, unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings, or any other inflammable materials especially liable to fire and
which is so situated as to endanger property or shall find obstructions to or
on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere
with the operations of the fire protection district, or egress of occupants in
case of fire, such officer shall order and direct the same to be removed or
remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or
occupant of such building or premises.
Provided, however, that if said occupant or owner shall deem himself aggrieved
by such order, he may within twenty four (24) hours, appeal to the village
president of the board of trustees who shall within ten (10) days investigate
the cause of complaint and review such order and file his decision thereon, and
unless the order is revoked or modified it shall remain in full force and be
forthwith complied with by said owner or occupant. (Ord. 225, 4-5-1915)
8-2-2: NOTICE OF DANGEROUS CONDITION SERVED:
The service of any such order shall be made upon the occupant of the premises
to whom it is directed by either delivering a true copy of the same to such
occupant personally or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person
in charge of the premises, or in case no such person is found upon the
premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door of the
entrance of said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner of the premises, such order may be served either by delivering
to and leaving with the said person a true copy of the said order or, if such
owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by
mailing such copy to the owner's last post office address. (Ord. 225, 4-5-1915)
8-2-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
An owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within ten (10) days
after said appeal shall have been determined or, if no appeal is taken, than
within ten (10) days after the service of said order, shall be liable to a
penalty as hereinafter stated. (Ord. 225, 4-5-1915)
8-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any of its
sections shall, upon conviction, forfeit and pay a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 225, 4-5-1915)
TITLE 9
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Interpretation
9-1-3: Zoning Map
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
The ordinance codified in this title shall be known and may be cited as the
ZONING CODE FOR THE VILLAGE OF FRANKLIN GROVE, LEE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 609,
4-9-2001)
9-1-2: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and applications, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public
health, morals, safety, or the general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances are at variance
with the requirements of this title the most restrictive, or that imposing the
higher standards, shall govern. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-1-3: ZONING MAP:
The current zoning map is on file in the village clerk's office at the village
hall. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Generally
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: GENERALLY:
Except where specifically defined herein, all words used in this title shall
carry their customary meanings. Words used in the present tense include the
future, and the plural includes the singular; "lot" includes "plot";
"buildings" includes "structure"; "shall" is intended to be mandatory;
"occupied" or "used" shall be considered as though followed by the words "or
intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied". (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A public service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting
properties.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building arranged, intended or designed to be occupied by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
AREA, BUILDING: The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
AREA HABITABLE: The building area minus square footage occupied by interior
partitions and exterior walls.
AREA, NET SITE: The total area within the property lines excluding exterior
streets.
AUTO WRECKING YARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground, but having more than half its clear
height below finished grade.
BOARDING HOUSE: A private dwelling in which at least three (3), but not more
than six (6) rooms are offered for rent and table board is furnished only to
roomers, and in which no transients are accommodated.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls
permanently attached to the ground and intended for the shelter, housing or
enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or portion of the main building on
a lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main or
principal building.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF: The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered, enclosed
porches, but does not include steps.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and the
mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which the building is situated.
CAMP: Any area of land or water on which are located two (2) or more cabins,
trailers, tents, shelters, houseboats or other accommodations of a design or
character suitable for seasonal living purposes of other more or less temporary
living purposes, regardless of whether such structure or other accommodations
actually are occupied seasonally or otherwise.
CAMP TRAILER: A land or floor area occupied or designed for occupancy by two
(2) or more trailers or camp cars in use for living purposes.
CAMPING GROUND: A parcel of land used or intended to be used, let or rented for
occupancy by campers or for occupancy by or of trailers, tents or movable or
temporary dwellings, rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
COURT: An open unoccupied space bounded on two (2) or more sides by the
exterior walls and lot lines.
COURT, AUTO: A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connected
units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed primarily for
transient automobile travelers and providing for accessory off street parking
facilities. "Auto court" includes buildings designated as tourist courts, motor
lodges, motels and similar appellations.
COURT, INNER: A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a building or
by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable.
COVERAGE: That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building area.
CURB LEVEL: The officially established grade of the curb in front of the
midpoint of the lot.
DUMP: A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal of waste
material of any kind.
DWELLING: A building designed or used as the living quarters of one or more
families. "Dwelling", "one-family dwelling", "multiple dwelling", "two-family
dwelling", or "dwelling group" shall not be deemed to include auto court,
rooming house or tourist home.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling or group of dwellings on one plot containing
separate living units for three (3) or more families, but which may have joint
services or facilities or both.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for or occupied exclusively
by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building containing two (2) dwelling units.
EFFICIENCY, APARTMENT HOUSE: An apartment house in which the minimum dwelling
area shall be five hundred (500) square feet and which may house no more than
two (2) adults and one child under twelve (12) years of age in each dwelling
unit.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single,
nonprofit housekeeping unit.
FARM: Any parcel of land containing at least ten (10) acres which is used for
gain in the raising of agricultural products, livestock, poultry and dairy
products. It includes necessary farm structures within the prescribed limits
and the storage of equipment used. It excludes the raising of furbearing
animals, riding academies, livery or boarding stables and dog kennels.
FILLING STATION: Any area of land, including the structures thereon, that is
used or designed to be used for the supply of gasoline or oil or other fuel for
the propulsion of motor vehicles and which may include facilities for cleaning
or servicing such motor vehicles.
FIRE HAZARD: Any area of land, including the structures thereon, that is used
or intended to be used for manufacturing processes of, or the storage use or
manufacture of materials or products of combustible nature. Such uses include,
but are not limited to, ammunition storage, bakeries, building material
establishment, cleaning plants, coal and coke yards, contractor's plant or
storage yards, foundries or forges, feed establishments, freight yards or
terminals, junkyards, laundries, lumberyards, paint stores and shops,
potteries, paper storage, welding shops, warehouses, wholesale houses and the
storage, use or manufacture of explosive gases, liquids or solids.
FLOOR AREA OF A BUILDING: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building and its accessory buildings on the same lot, excluding
basement floor areas not devoted to residential use, but including the area of
roofed porches and roofed terraces. All dimensions shall be measured between
exterior faces of walls.
GARAGE: An accessory building intended or designed to be used for the storage
of noncommercial motor vehicles. "Garage" includes the term "carport".
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage not a private garage, and which is used for storage
or servicing of motor vehicles.
GASOLINE STATION: Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is used
for the sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel and oil and other
lubricating substances, accessories, and which may or may not include
facilities for lubricating, washing or otherwise servicing motor vehicles.
GRADE, ESTABLISHED: The elevation of the centerline of the streets as
officially established by the village authorities.
GRADE, FINISHED: The completed surfaces of lawns, walks, and roads brought to
grades shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
GREENBELT PLANTING STRIP: A cultivated strip of ground of width specified and
planted with such plant materials that will, at maturity, grow to an average
height or greater than the specified height.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof. The conducting of a clinic, hospital, barbershop, beauty
parlor, tea room, tourist home, animal hospital or any similar use shall not be
a home occupation. Such home occupations, where permitted in a residential
district of any zoning type, shall be subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The occupation shall be conducted wholly within the principal building;
   B.   Only persons residing within the dwelling unit shall be employed in the
occupation;
   C.   No equipment shall be used in the occupation, other than that which is
customarily incidental to domestic use;
   D.   No outdoor storage in conjunction with the occupation shall be allowed;
   E.   No exterior display or exterior sign shall be permitted, except as
allowed by the sign regulations for each district;
   F.   No alterations of any kind shall be made to the dwelling which changes
its residential character;
   G.   No equipment or material or compounds used in such occupation shall be
of a dangerous, hazardous, poisonous, noxious or like nature.
HOSPITAL: A building used for the diagnosis, treatment or other care of human
ailments, unless otherwise specified.
HOTEL: A building containing rooms intended or designed to be used, rented or
hired out to be occupied or which are occupied for sleeping purposed by guests
and where only a general kitchen and dining room are provided within the
building or in an accessory building.
HOUSE TRAILER: Any portable or mobile vehicle used or designed to be used for
living purposes and with its wheels, rollers or skids in place.
JUNKYARD: Lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collecting, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded
material; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
machinery or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale of parts
thereof.
LAUNDERETTE: A business premises equipped with individual clothes washing
machines for use of retail customers, exclusive of laundry facilities provided
as an accessory use in an apartment house or an apartment hotel.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: A unit being ten feet (10') wide, thirty feet (30')
long and fourteen feet (14') high located within the structure, or within a
side or rear yard or within an access drive or aisle of a required off street
parking space.
LODGING HOUSE: A building in which two (2) or more rooms are rented and in
which no table board is furnished.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building,
and the accessory buildings or uses customarily incident to it, including such
open spaces as are required by this title.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land at the junction of and fronting on two (2) or
more intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: A mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined in this section.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width measured at right angles to its depth.
MOTOR VEHICLE, REPAIR SHOP: A building, or portion of a building, arranged,
intended or designed to be used for making repairs to motor vehicles.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME: Any dwelling where persons are housed or lodged
and furnished with meals and nursing care for hire.
OPEN SPACE: An unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with the
building.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: Each unit being eight feet (8') wide and twenty feet
(20') long exclusive of access drives and turning areas, located within an
accessory garage or in a side or rear yard, properly graveled, or paved and
maintained.
PLAT: A map, plan or layout of a parcel or parcels of land, indicating the
location and boundaries of individual properties.
SIGN: Any device for visual communication that is used for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not including
any flag, badge or insignia of any government or government agency, or of any
civic, charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal or similar organization.
STREET: A public way which affords principal means of access to abutting
property.
STREET GRADE: The officially established grade of the street upon which a lot
fronts or in its absence the established grade of other street upon which the
lot abuts, at the midpoint of the frontage of the lot thereon. If there is no
officially established grade, the existing grade of the street at such midpoint
shall be taken as the street grade.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street and the lot.
STRUCTURE: A combination of materials other than a building to form a
construction that is safe and stable and includes among other things platforms,
bleachers, towers, bins, fences and display signs.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for a transient guest for compensation.
TRAILER: See definition of House Trailer.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use incidental to the principal use of a building. In
buildings restricted to residence use, the office of a professional man,
customary family occupations and workshops not conducted for compensation shall
be deemed accessory uses.
USE, MANUFACTURING: Any building or lot used for making articles or products
and employing more than four (4) persons or consuming more than sixty (60) man
hours per week for manufacturing purposes.
USE, NONCONFORMING: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of the ordinance codified in this title, and which does not
conform to the regulations of the district or zone in which it is situated.
YARD: An unoccupied space open to the sky, on the same lot with a building or
structure.
YARD, FRONT: A yard on the same lot with the building between the front line of
the building and the front line of the lot and extending the full width of the
lot. As used in this title "front yard" applies to all buildings on the lot.
YARD, REAR: A yard on the same lot with the building between the rear line of
the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of the
lot. As used in this title "rear yard" applies to principal buildings only.
YARD, SIDE: A yard on the same lot with the building situated between the
building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side
line. As used in this title "side yard" applies to principal buildings only.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 3
PLAN COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Creation
9-3-2: Membership
9-3-3: Powers And Duties
9-3-4: Comprehensive Plan, Applicability
9-3-5: Comprehensive Plan, Procedures And Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.
9-3-1: CREATION:
A plan commission is hereby created. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
Membership shall be as follows:
   A.   The plan commission shall consist of a chairman and six (6) other
members who shall be appointed by the village president and confirmed by the
village board. Initially, the village president shall appoint the chairman and
two (2) members for three (3) year terms, two (2) members for two (2) year
terms and two (2) members for one year terms. Thereafter, each successive
member and chairman shall serve two (2) year terms, unless appointed to serve
the remaining unexpired term of a member or chairman, and shall serve until
their successors have been appointed and qualified.
   B.   Members of the plan commission must reside within the corporate limits
of the village or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of such corporate
limits. At no time shall more than three (3) members of the plan commission
reside outside the corporate limits of the village. The chairman of the plan
commission must reside within the village's corporate limits. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
9-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The plan commission shall have the following powers:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the village board a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the village. Such plan
may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each
of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof, of the village. This plan may include reasonable requirements with
reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and other improvements. The plan,
as recommended by the plan commission, and as thereafter adopted by the
village, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land situated within
the corporate limits, and contiguous territory not more than one and one-half
(11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits, and not included in any other
municipality of this state.
      1.   Such plan may be implemented by recommendations for ordinances to be
adopted by the village, establishing reasonable standards of design for
subdivision and for re subdivisions of unimproved land, and of areas subject to
redevelopment in respect to public improvements. The plan may also establish
reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course, and surfacing of
public streets and highways, alleys, ways of public service facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of
lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water supply
and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment.
      2.   The plan may designate land suitable for annexation to the
municipality, and the recommended zoning classification for such land upon
annexation.
      3.   In the event that the plan is adopted by the village, the plan
commission may from time to time recommend changes thereof to the village
board;
   B.   To prepare and recommend to the village board, from time to time, plans
for specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan;
   C.   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such projects, and, generally to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan;
   D.   To exercise such other powers, consistent and germane to other powers,
granted by this chapter, and as may be conferred by amendment by the village
board from time to time.
   E.   To review all applications for amendment to the zoning code pursuant to
section
9-14-16 of this title and, prior to the public hearing before the village's
zoning board of appeals on such amendment, make a recommendation to the board
of appeals and the village board as to such application for amendment. (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-3-4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, APPLICABILITY:
The official comprehensive plan or any amendments thereof or additions thereto
proposed by the plan commission shall be effective in the village limits and
contiguous area only after its formal adoption by the village board. Such plan
shall be advisory and of itself shall not be construed to regulate or control
the use of private property in any way except as to such part thereof as has
been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the village board. (Ord. 609, 4-
9-2001)
9-3-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, PROCEDURES AND PROVISIONS:
   A.   The mayor and village board may initiate plans and maps by requesting
the plan commission to prepare an official comprehensive plan and recommend the
same, or may originate an official comprehensive plan, or a part thereof, or an
amendment thereto, and may refer same or suggested changes in an existing
comprehensive plan to the plan commission for its consideration and
recommendation thereon.
   B.   The village board may adopt parts of a comprehensive plan
recommendation by the plan commission without adopting the entire comprehensive
plan as recommended, or may modify or amend portions of a recommended
comprehensive plan without a rereference of same to the plan commission and may
adopt such comprehensive plan, as modified or amended. Such comprehensive plan,
when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the
village.
   C.   Upon submission by the village board of any suggested comprehensive
plan, part thereof, or amendment to an existing comprehensive plan to the plan
commission for consideration and recommendation, the village board may require
a report thereon from the plan commission with its recommendation within ninety
(90) days from the date of such submission, and if the plan commission shall
fail to make such report within such ninety (90) days, then the village board
may proceed to consider such comprehensive plan, part thereof, or amendment to
an existing comprehensive plan, for adoption, including arranging for and
holding of a public hearing thereon in accordance with the provisions contained
in subsection D of this section in the same manner as if the plan commission
had made its recommendation.
   D.   Upon submission of a comprehensive plan by the plan commission, or a
proposed amendment to an existing comprehensive plan, the village board shall
schedule a public hearing thereon, either before the plan commission or the
village board. Not less than fifteen (15) days' notice of the proposed hearing,
and the time and place thereof, shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in Lee County. The hearing shall be informal, but all
persons desiring to be heard in support or opposition to the comprehensive plan
or amendment shall be afforded such opportunity, and may submit their
statements orally, in writing, or both. The hearing may be recessed to another
date if not concluded, if notice of the time and place thereof is publicly
announced at the hearing or is given by newspaper publication not less than
five (5) days prior to the recessed hearing.
   E.   Within ninety (90) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
village board, after consideration of the recommendation of the plan commission
and such information as shall have been derived from the hearing, shall either
adopt the comprehensive plan or amendment in whole or in part or reject the
entire comprehensive plan or amendment. If adopted, the village board shall
enact the ordinance including a map or maps as previously provided in this
chapter. In adopting an official comprehensive plan, the village board shall be
subject to the same limitations as to subject matter as apply to the plan
commission. If at the expiration of such ninety (90) days, the village board
has taken no formal action, the comprehensive plan or amendment thereto may
thereafter not be acted upon by the village board without again complying with
the notice and hearing conditions previously provided in subsection D of this
section.
   F.   No official map, or amendment or addition thereto, shall be grounds for
rejection of any plat of subdivision or resubdivision by the village board, if
application for final approval of such subdivision or resubdivision is filed
with the village board fifteen (15) days or more prior to the date on which the
ordinance approving the official map, or amendment or addition thereto, is
adopted.
   G.   The comprehensive plan or amendment shall become effective upon the
expiration of ten (10) days after the date of filing notice of the adoption of
such comprehensive plan or amendment with the Lee County recorder of deeds.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
9-4-1: Designation Of Districts
9-4-2: Zoning Map To Include Districts
9-4-3: Boundaries Interpretation
9-4-4: Application Of Regulations
9-4-1: DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the village, the municipality is divided into the following types of
districts:
District no. 1 - One-family residential district
District no. 2 - Two-family residential district
District no. 3 - Multi-family residential district
District no. 4 - Highway frontage business district
District no. 5 - General business district
                C-1 Neighborhood business district
District no. 6 - Industrial district
                Historic preservation district
                Planned unit development district
 
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001; amd. Ord. 693-08, 9-10-2008)
9-4-2: ZONING MAP TO INCLUDE DISTRICTS:
The districts are bounded and defined as shown on the map entitled "zoning map
of the village of Franklin Grove, Illinois", which, with all explanatory matter
thereon, is made a part of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-4-3: BOUNDARIES INTERPRETATION:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or street lines, such centerline or street lines shall
be construed to be such boundaries.
   B.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   C.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such
dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-4-4: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no part
thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered unless in conformity with the
regulations specified in this title for the district in which it is located.
   B.   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to:
      1.   Exceed the height;
      2.   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      4.   Have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, inner
or outer courts than is specified in this title for the district in which such
building is located.
   C.   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be included as
part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRICT NO. 1 - ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Regulations Generally
9-5-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-5-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-5-4: Net Site Area
9-5-5: Coverage
9-5-6: Required Yards
9-5-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-5-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-5-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-5-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set out in this chapter shall apply in all No. 1 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The principal permitted uses shall be:
Churches, or other places of worship, parish houses, convents and Sunday
schools.
Customary accessory uses and building, provided such uses are incidental to the
principal use and do not include any activity commonly conducted for gain. Any
accessory building shall be located on the same lot with the principal
building.
Customary agricultural operations, provided, however, that no odor or dust
producing substance or use shall be permitted within one hundred feet (100') of
any property line.
Customary home occupations, provided that any such occupation shall be
conducted in the principal building. There shall be no external evidence of
such occupations except a small announcement or professional sign not exceeding
one square foot in area, provided, that no such sign shall be illuminated.
One-family dwelling.
Public educational uses.
Public recreational uses, libraries and museums. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses (see sections
9-14-1 and
9-14-2 of this title) shall be:
Cemeteries.
Hospitals.
Nonprofit cultural and recreational uses.
Parochial and private educational uses.
Public ownership uses.
Welfare uses. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-4: NET SITE AREA:
Net site area shall be not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and lot
width of not less than sixty six feet (66'), at the building line. (Ord. 609,
4-9-2001)
9-5-5: COVERAGE:
All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the net site area. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards not less than the depths or
widths following:
   A.   Front yard depth shall be thirty feet (30') or average of established
front depth on block, whichever is less.
   B.   There shall be a side yard on each side of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the lot width, with a six foot (6') minimum, but need not exceed ten
feet (10').
      1.   Corner Lots: On corner lots there shall be maintained a side yard of
not less than twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to the street which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage,
or average of established front yard depths on block, whichever is less.
      2.   Reversed Corner Lot: In the case of a reversed corner lot there
shall be maintained a setback from the side street of not less than seventy
five percent (75%) of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of such
corner lots, but such setback need not exceed thirty feet (30'), nor average of
established front yard depths on block. No accessory building on said corner
lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the
rear, nor be located nearer than six feet (6') to the side lot line of said
adjacent lot.
   C.   Rear yard depth shall be twenty five feet (25'), or as alternates:
twenty five (25) to thirty percent (30%) of the depth of the lot, or not less
than the height of the principal building. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
Height of the principal building shall not exceed two and one- half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Accessory buildings shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height; not less
than ten feet (10') from the principal building if not attached to it; not less
than six feet (6') from the side lot line; not less than six feet (6') from the
rear lot line. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-5-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
CHAPTER 6
DISTRICT NO. 2 - TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Regulations Generally
9-6-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-6-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-6-4: Net Site Area
9-6-5: Coverage
9-6-6: Required Yards
9-6-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-6-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-6-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-6-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply in all No. 2 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses shall be:
Any principal use permitted in district No. 1.
Accessory uses incident to the uses, provided such uses are incidental to the
principal use and do not include any activity commonly conducted for gain. Any
accessory building shall be located on the same lot with the principal
building.
Public ownership uses except landfills, incinerators, warehouses, storage yards
and disposal plants.
Two-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses (see sections
9-14-1 and
9-14-2 of this title) shall be:
Home occupations.
Nonprofit cultural and recreational uses.
Parochial and private educational uses.
Private landfills.
Public ownership uses of any nature.
Welfare uses, hospitals and cemeteries.
Upon approval of the board of appeals acting under provisions outlined in
chapter 14 of this title, a special permit may be issued for the remodeling of
an existing structure into a two- family detached dwelling. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
9-6-4: NET SITE AREA:
Net site area shall be not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and lot
width of not less than sixty six feet (66'), at the building line. (Ord. 609,
4-9-2001)
9-6-5: COVERAGE:
All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the net site area. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not less than the depths or
widths following:
   A.   Front yard depth shall be thirty feet (30') or average of established
front depth on block, whichever is less.
   B.   There shall be a side yard on each side of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the lot width, with a six foot (6') minimum, but need not exceed ten
feet (10').
      1.   Corner Lots: On corner lots there shall be maintained a side yard of
not less than twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to the street which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage,
or average of established front yard depths on block, whichever is less.
      2.   Reversed Corner Lot: In the case of a reversed corner lot there
shall be maintained a setback from the side street of not less than seventy
five percent (75%) of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of such
corner lots, but such setback need not exceed thirty feet (30'), nor average of
established front yard depths on block. No accessory building on said corner
lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the
rear, nor be located nearer than six feet (6') to the side lot line of said
adjacent lot.
   C.   Rear yard depth shall be twenty five feet (25'), or as alternates:
twenty five (25) to thirty percent (30%) of the depth of the lot, or not less
than the height of the principal building. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
The height of the principal building shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Accessory buildings shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height; nor be less
than fifteen feet (15') from the principal building if not attached to it; nor
be less than six feet (6') from the side lot line; nor be less than six feet
(6') from the rear lot line. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-6-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
CHAPTER 7
DISTRICT NO. 3 - MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Regulations Generally
9-7-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-7-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-7-4: Net Site Area
9-7-5: Coverage
9-7-6: Required Yards
9-7-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-7-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-7-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-7-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply in all No. 3 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses shall be:
Any principal use permitted in district No. 2.
Multi-family dwellings not exceeding four (4) dwelling units, efficiency
apartment houses, which shall contain no less than four (4) units per site and
no less than three (3) units per building. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses (see sections
9-14-1 and
9-14-2 of this title) shall be:
All special permitted uses given for district No. 2.
Accessory uses.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Boarding houses not conducted for gain, public service substations and
telephone exchanges.
Flower shops and greenhouses.
Funeral homes.
Multi-family dwellings exceeding four (4) dwelling units.
Real estate and insurance offices.
Transit passenger stations. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-4: NET SITE AREA:
No dwelling shall be established on a lot having an area or width less than
specified for district No. 2; provided, however, that each dwelling shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than one thousand (1,000) square
feet for each family housed therein. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-5: COVERAGE:
All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than forty
percent (40%) of the area of the lot. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
Yards of the following minimum depths shall be provided:
   A.   Front yard depth shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side yards shall be one-third (1/3) the height of the building.
   C.   Rear yard depth shall be equal to the height of the building. (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
The height of the principal building may be three (3) stories, but not
exceeding forty feet (40'). (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Accessory buildings shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height; nor be less
than twenty five feet (25') from principal building if not attached to it; nor
be less than six feet (6') from side lot line; nor be less than six feet (6')
from rear lot line, except that one-family dwellings and two-family detached
dwellings established in this district shall have accessory uses subject to
those regulations given in district No. 2. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-7-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see also chapter 13 of this title.
   A.   Distance Between Buildings On Same Plot: No principal building shall be
closer to any other principal building than the average of the heights of the
buildings.
   B.   Required Inner Court Dimension: The least dimension of an inner court
shall be not less than the full height of the walls enclosing such court, but
not less than fifty feet (50'). Each inner court shall have an open and
unobstructed passageway at grade level sufficient to permit the passage of fire
equipment. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 8
DISTRICT NO. 4 - HIGHWAY FRONTAGE BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8-1: Regulations Generally
9-8-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-8-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-8-4: Net Site Area
9-8-5: Coverage
9-8-6: Required Yards
9-8-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-8-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-8-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-8-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to all No. 4 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses shall be:
All uses permitted in district No. 3 subject to all the provisions specified
for that district.
Drive-in refreshment stands.
Farm implement establishments including outdoor storage of vehicles for sale or
hire.
Garages and filling stations upon approval of the board of appeals and subject
to such conditions and safeguards as deemed appropriate by such board and upon
securing a permit therefor.
Motels and hotels.
New and/or used car sales establishments.
Restaurants.
Taverns.
Garages, filling stations and farm implement establishments are subject to the
following provisions;
   A.   No repair work is performed out of doors;
   B.   Pumps, lubricating or other devices are located at least thirty feet
(30') from the right of way of State Route No. 38 and at least twenty feet
(20') from any other street line;
   C.   All fuel, oil or similar substances are stored at least thirty five
feet (35') distant from any street or lot line.
   D.   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles and similar articles are
stored within a building. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses shall be any other uses which, in the opinion of the
board of appeals, are of the same general character as those listed as
principal permitted uses and which will not be detrimental to the district in
which they are located. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-4: NET SITE AREA:
The net site area shall not be less than four thousand eight hundred (4,800)
square feet and lot width shall not be less than sixty six feet (66'), at the
building line. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-5: COVERAGE:
All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than forty
percent (40%) of the area of the lot. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not less than the following
depths:
   A.   Front yard depth shall be forty feet (40').
   B.   Each side yard shall be fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Rear yard shall be twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
The height of the principal building shall not exceed forty feet (40'). (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-8-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Accessory building regulations are the same as district No. 3. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
9-8-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see chapter 13 of this title. Front and side
yards may be used for automobile parking. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 9
DISTRICT NO. 5 - GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9-1: Regulations Generally
9-9-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-9-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-9-4: Net Site Area
9-9-5: Coverage
9-9-6: Required Yards
9-9-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-9-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-9-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-9-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply in all No. 5 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses shall be:
All uses permitted in district No. 4 subject to all the provisions specified
for that district except that new constructions for one-family detached and
two-family detached dwellings is not permitted.
Accessory buildings and accessory uses.
Animal hospitals and kennels, provided, that the animal hospitals and kennels
are reasonably soundproof and have only covered inside runs for the animals.
Banks, offices, studios.
Personal service shops, hand laundries.
Shops for custom work.
Shops for making articles or products to be sold at retail on the premises,
except manufacturing uses are not permitted.
Stores and shops for the conducting of any retail business.
Theaters, assembly halls, billiard or pool parlors, bowling alley.
Wholesale businesses, storage in bulk of, or warehouse for such material as:
Building material,
Clothing,
Contractor's equipment,
Cotton,
Drugs,
Dry goods,
Feed,
Food,
Furniture,
Hardware,
Ice,
Machinery,
Metals,
Oil and petroleum in quantities less than tank car lots,
Paint and paint supplies,
Pipe,
Rubber,
Shop supplies,
Tobacco or wood. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses (see
9-14-1 and
9-14-2 of this title) shall be any other uses which in the opinion of the board
of appeals are of the same general character as those listed as principal
permitted uses and which will not be detrimental to the district in which they
are located. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-4: NET SITE AREA:
Any building used for residence on the first floor shall have a lot area and
lot width equal to that required in district No. 3. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-5: COVERAGE:
Any building used for residence on the first floor, and including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the
lot. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
   A.   Any building used for residence of the first floor shall have front,
side and rear yards not less than those specified for district no. 4.
   B.   Any building used for any other use as permitted above shall have
front, side and rear yards not less than the following depths:
      1.   Front Yard Depth:
         a.   For lots fronting on State Route 38: Forty feet (40');
         b.   For lots fronting on all other streets in this district: No front
yard required; (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
      2.   Side And Rear Yards: None required, excepting that where the general
business district adjoins a residential district, a minimum side and rear yard
of six feet (6') is required. (Ord. 642-03, 11-10-2003)
9-9-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
The height of the principal building shall not exceed forty feet (40'). (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
There are no accessory building regulations requirements. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-9-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
CHAPTER 9A
DISTRICT C-1 - NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9A-1: Neighborhood Business District
9-9A-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-9A-3: Special Uses
9-9A-1: NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT:
The neighborhood business district is established to provide a location for a
limited range of daily convenience oriented businesses and services principally
relying upon the patronage from the immediate surrounding neighborhoods in
appropriate locations in the village. The map symbol and short name for this
district shall be C-1 district. (Ord. 693-08, 9-10-2008)
9-9A-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following businesses shall be considered permitted uses in this
classification:
Apparel shop.
Art and school supply store.
Art gallery, studio.
Bakery shop, including the baking and processing of food products (when
prepared for retail use on the property only).
Barber shop, beauty parlor, or similar personal service shop.
Book and stationery store.
Candy and ice cream shops.
Custom dressmaking or tailoring or shoe sales or repair when conducted for
retail sales on the premises only.
Florist shop and conservatory for retail trade on the premises only.
Food and fruit stores.
Gift shops.
Jewelry store and watch repair.
Offices (i.e., medical clinic, insurance, law, psychologist, chiropractic,
optometrist, physician, administrative).
Restaurants, tearoom and cafe (when the establishment is not of the drive-in
type where food is served to occupants remaining in motor vehicles and fast
food restaurants).
Toy store.
Travel bureau and transportation ticket office.
Water pumping stations. (Ord. 693-08, 9-10-2008)
9-9A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Additional businesses may be considered as special uses and as such shall be
reviewed by the zoning board of appeals for appropriateness prior to such
classification. (Ord. 693-08, 9-10-2008)
CHAPTER 10
DISTRICT NO. 6 - INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10-1: Regulations Generally
9-10-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-10-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-10-4: Net Site Area
9-10-5: Coverage
9-10-6: Required Yards
9-10-7: Height Of Principal Building
9-10-8: Accessory Building Regulations
9-10-9: Supplementary Regulations
9-10-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply in all No. 6 districts.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses shall be:
Any use except auto wrecking yards, junk yards, open storage of junk and other
waste products or a structure used for dwelling purposes; provided, however,
the use complies with the following provisions:
   A.   Review By The Board Of Appeals: To assure compliance with provisions of
this title as they apply to this district, all plans and specifications of
proposed uses in this district must be submitted to the board of appeals for
their review prior to issuance of permit by enforcing official.
   B.   Noise And Shock: Any machines, presses, breaks, forges, hammers and
similar constructions shall be placed on suitable shock absorbing mountings and
on suitable, reinforced concrete footings; shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness; shall not be
loaded beyond capacity as prescribed by the manufacturer.
   C.   Glare And Heat: Any processes emitting glare and heat shall be
performed so as not to be seen from any point beyond the outside of the
property.
   D.   Smoke And Dirt: Smoke and dirt shall not exceed 0.3 grains per cubic
foot of flue gas at stack temperature of five hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(500°F), nor shall smoke emitted to atmosphere be more dense than Ringlemann
no. 1 for periods aggregating four (4) minutes in any thirty (30) minutes.
   E.   Odor And Gases: The emission of obnoxious odors of any kind shall not
be permitted nor shall any gas be emitted which is deleterious to the public
health, safety or general welfare.
   F.   Fire And Safety Hazards:
      1.   All tanks providing storage of flammable liquids aboveground shall
be located not less than one hundred feet (100') from property lines. All tanks
providing storage of flammable liquids belowground shall be located not closer
to the property line than the greatest depth to the bottom of the buried tank.
      2.   The storage of rags, wastepaper or similar products of combustible
nature, when enclosed in a building shall be enclosed in a building of four (4)
hours' construction, no part of which may be located closer than one hundred
feet (100') from any property line.
   G.   Open Storage: All such storage shall be enclosed within a tight,
unpierced fence made of materials similar to or architecturally compatible with
the construction materials of the principal building and not less than six feet
(6') in height, or enclosed within a greenbelt planting strip not less than six
feet (6') in width, and not less than six feet (6') in height, to normally
screen from view of stockpiles from any outside street; all fences are subject
to yard requirements of accessory buildings listed in section
9-10-8 of this chapter. The storage of lumber, coal or other combustible
material shall be provided with a roadway, graded, surfaced, and maintained
from the street to the rear of the storage area to permit free access of fire
trucks at any time.
   H.   Sewage Waste: No wastes shall be discharged in the public sewer system
which are dangerous to the public health and safety. Acidity or alkalinity
shall be neutralized to a pH of 7.0 as a daily average on a volumetric basis,
with a temporary variation of pH 5.0 to 10.0. Wastes shall contain no cyanides
and no halogens, and shall contain not more than ten (10) ppm of the following
gases: hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, and nitrous oxide. Wastes shall not
contain any insoluble substance in excess of ten thousand (10,000) ppm or
exceed a daily average of five hundred (500) ppm or fail to pass a No. 8
standard sieve, or have a dimension greater than one-half inch (1/2"). Wastes
shall not have a chlorine demand greater than fifteen (15) ppm. Wastes shall
not contain phenols in excess of 0.005 ppm. Wastes shall not contain any grease
or oil or any oily substance in excess of one hundred (100) ppm or exceed a
daily average of twenty five (25) ppm. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
For special permitted uses (see sections
9-14-1 and
9-14-2 of this chapter) see principal permitted uses in section
9-10-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-4: NET SITE AREA:
Net site area shall be of any area to satisfy requirements of coverage yards,
parking and other portions of this title which apply to this district. (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-5: COVERAGE:
All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the net site area. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
   A.   Yard Depths: Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not less
than the following depths:
      1.   Front Yards: Front yard depth shall be fifty feet (50').
      2.   Side Yards And Rear Yards:
         a.   Where yard abuts a zoning district other than industrial: Forty
feet (40');
         b.   Where yard abuts street other than street on which use fronts:
Thirty feet (30');
         c.   Where yard abuts another industrial use: Twenty feet (20');
         d.   Where yard abuts railroad right of way: None required.
   B.   Greenbelt Planting Strips: A greenbelt planting strip not less than six
feet (6') in width, and not less than six feet (6') in height shall be provided
and maintained along all zoning district boundary lines which border a more
restrictive zoning district and along all street lines except such greenbelt
planting strips may be omitted along front and side yards where such yards are
landscaped and maintained. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-7: HEIGHT OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING:
The height of the principal building shall not exceed thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-8: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Accessory buildings shall be constructed of materials similar or
architecturally compatible with contraction materials of principal building;
nor be less than twenty feet (20') in height; nor be less than twenty feet
(20') from side and rear lot lines except where side and rear lot lines abut
railroad right of way, then no yards are required; and shall comply with
provisions listed under fire and safety hazards set forth in subsection 9-10-2F
of this chapter. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-10-9: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
For supplementary regulations see chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
CHAPTER 11
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-11-1: Historic Preservation District; Purpose
9-11-2: Creation Of Historic Preservation Commission
9-11-3: Membership Of Historic Preservation Commission
9-11-4: Powers And Duties
9-11-5: Historic District Zoning Requirements
9-11-1: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT; PURPOSE:
It is hereby stated that in the village of Franklin Grove there is to be
created an official historic preservation zoning district, the area or areas of
which shall be shown on the official village zoning map.
   A.   The purpose of the historic preservation district pursuant to division
48.2, article II of the Illinois municipal code, is to ensure the preservation
of areas, places, buildings, structures, works of art and other objects having
special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value.
   B.   The historic preservation zoning district classification shall be
superimposed on or established in addition to other zoning district
classifications; regulations, use and other requirements shall apply as
specified. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-11-2: CREATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
An historic preservation commission is hereby created. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-11-3: MEMBERSHIP OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Membership shall be as follows:
   A.   Appointment And Terms: The historic plan commission shall consist of a
chairman and four (4) other members who shall be appointed by the village
president and confirmed by the village board. Initially, the village president
shall appoint the chairman for a three (3) year term, two (2) members for two
(2) year terms and two (2) members for one year terms. Thereafter, each
successive member and chairman shall serve two (2) year terms, unless appointed
to serve the remaining unexpired term of a member or chairman, and shall serve
until their successors have been appointed and qualified.
   B.   Residency: Members of the historic plan commission must reside within
the corporate limits of the village or within one and one- half (11/2) miles of
such corporate limits. At no time shall more than two (2) members of the plan
commission reside outside the corporate limits of the village. The chairman of
the historic plan commission must reside within the village's corporate limits.
   C.   Composition: The village president or one member of the village board
of trustees shall be an ex officio member of the commission. One member shall
be a member of the Franklin Grove area historical society, one member shall be
a member of Farming Heritage, Inc., and three (3) members shall be qualified
members of the community or surrounding contiguous area.
   D.   Removal From Office: An appointed member of the commission may be
removed by corporate authority, only after public hearing, for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be only
for the unexpired portion of the term.
   E.   Compensation: Members of the historic preservation committee shall
receive no compensation for their services. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-11-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the historic preservation commission to promote general
welfare through the preservation and protection of historic sites and
buildings. Designated powers hereby enable the commission to accomplish its
full duty. It shall keep a permanent record of its resolutions, transactions
and determinations.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the historic preservation commission to inspect
and classify buildings, structures, or places located within the village that
it considers to have significant historic interest. The historic preservation
commission shall transmit a letter to the owner or owners of the site informing
them of the site selection.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the historic preservation commission to inspect
and classify buildings, structures, or places located within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the village limits that it considers to have significant
historic interest. The historic preservation commission shall transmit a letter
to the owner or owners of the site informing them of the site selection.
   C.   An owner or owners of sites within the village limits determined to
have significant historic interest may request placement within the historic
preservation zoning district. The historic preservation commission shall make a
final determination and make recommendation to the zoning board of appeals.
   D.   An owner or owners of sites outside the village limits, but within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the village limits, determined to have significant
historic interest may request historic preservation status within the village
comprehensive plan. The historic preservation commission shall make a final
determination and make a recommendation to the planning commission.
   E.   Zoning classification or reclassification into the historic
preservation zoning district shall follow procedures outlined within this title
for all other such zoning classifications or reclassifications.
   F.   Permit applications for occupancy, construction, reconstruction,
revision, or demolition of structures within the historic preservation zoning
district or within the area covered by the comprehensive plan shall be
forwarded to the historic preservation commission for review and recommendation
before such permits may be issued. The commission shall pass upon all permits
referred to it.
   G.   The historic preservation commission shall hold a public meeting within
thirty (30) days after notification by the zoning officer of the filing of an
application for a building or occupancy permit for a case upon which the board
is required to make judgment, or at such other times when the chairman of the
commission determines that a meeting is necessary.
   H.   It shall be the duty of the historic preservation commission to make
judgments and pass upon the appropriateness of exterior architectural features
of buildings, structures, signs, and other exterior features hereafter
constructed, reconstructed, altered or restored within the Franklin Grove
historical preservation district. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-11-5: HISTORIC DISTRICT ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Zoning Classification: Historic district zoning is an overlay zoning
classification which may be utilized in any of the other zoning classifications
outlined in this title to fulfill the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Permits: Permit applications, processing, approval or disapproval
concerning demolition, revision, construction or reconstruction of any site,
building, or structure so designated within the historic preservation zoning
district shall be in accordance with those stipulations set forth in this
chapter. Demolition of a building, structure, signage, or site within the
historic preservation district requires a demolition permit obtained through
application to the zoning officer. Fees for a demolition permit shall be the
same as for a building permit as outlined in subsection 9-14-14C of this title
and the zoning officer shall be compensated for issuance of a demolition permit
according to the fees for a building permit as outlined in section
2-1-3 of this code.
   C.   Architectural Review: Exterior architectural and constructional changes
of those buildings, structures or sites outside the village limits but within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of the village limits which have been designated
in the comprehensive plan to be historically significant shall be reviewed in
accordance with those objectives set forth in the Franklin Grove historic
preservation district.
   D.   Criteria For Review: The historic preservation commission shall
consider various construction aspects such as:
      1.   Basic design, arrangement, texture, material and color of building
or other structure in question, when reviewing cases.
      2.   The relation of such factors to similar features of buildings within
the historic preservation district shall also be considered.
      3.   The board shall not consider any interior arrangement nor shall it
make requirements except for the purpose of preventing developments incongruous
to the old historic aspects of the historic preservation district.
   E.   Presentation Of Application: Each application submitted to the historic
preservation commission shall be presented openly at a public meeting. The
commission shall hold the public meeting within thirty (30) days from the date
of notification by the zoning officer of a building, occupancy or demolition
permit.
      1.   A final decision may or may not be made at the public hearing,
depending on the desire of the commission. However, approval or disapproval
must be issued within thirty (30) days of the hearing.
      2.   An additional thirty (30) days may be taken by mutual agreement.
   F.   Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   Approval And Permit: Upon approval of application a certificate of
approval signed by the chairman of the historic preservation commission shall
be forwarded to the zoning officer and the applicant. The zoning officer shall
determine that all other requirements have been met and issue appropriate
permits. The zoning officer shall periodically inspect the construction or
alteration to determine that work is being completed according to the
certificate of approval.
      2.   Disapproval: In the event of disapproval of an application by the
historic preservation commission, that commission shall state the reasons
therefor in a written statement to the applicant and the zoning officer, and
make recommendations as to basic design, arrangement, texture, material, color,
or exterior architectural features of the buildings or structure.
      3.   Nonconformity Of Construction: In the event of disapproval of
construction, reconstruction, alteration, revision, or demolition, the
commission shall state why said act would be incongruous to the Franklin Grove
historic preservation zoning district. Nonconformity to commission action shall
cause enforcement of subsection G2 of this section.
      4.   Appeal: In the event of disapproval by the historic preservation
commission, the applicant may appeal the decision. Disapproval by the
commission may be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions defined
in the "administrative review act", approved May 8, 1945.
   G.   Remedies And Penalties:
      1.   In case any building or structures is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted, or maintained or any building, structure, or land is used
in violation of this title, the corporate authorities of the village board, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
to prevent the occupancy of such structure, building, structure, or land.
      2.   Any person violating any provision of this title shall be subject to
fines as outlined in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12-1: General Regulations
9-12-2: Principal Permitted Uses
9-12-3: Special Permitted Uses
9-12-4: Net Site Area
9-12-5: Density
9-12-6: Coverage
9-12-7: Required Yards
9-12-8: Building Distances
9-12-9: Procedure
9-12-10: Concept Plan
9-12-11: Preliminary PUD Plan
9-12-12: Final PUD Plan
9-12-13: Major Changes
9-12-14: Minor Changes
9-12-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The planned unit development (PUD) district is intended to encourage
more efficient use of land by allowing, under certain circumstances, a more
flexible method of land development and redevelopment than is otherwise
permitted under strict application of the other chapters of this title.
   B.   Planned unit development provisions are intended for large tracts or
unique sites where a flexible approach to zoning regulations would facilitate,
to the extent possible;
      1.   A maximum choice in the type of environment available to the public
by allowing a development that would not otherwise be possible under the other
chapters of this title;
      2.   Protection or preservations of natural resources, vegetation,
topographic and geologic features through clustering development and other
innovative site planning and design techniques;
      3.   A more efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks
of utilities, streets and other public or private facilities;
      4.   Maximization of open or recreational space; and
      5.   Provide for condominium developments in accordance with the
condominium property act, chapter 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 605/
1 et seq., as amended.
   C.   The PUD district is intended to provide for a development incorporating
a single type or variety of related residential uses which are planned and
developed as a unit, but departs from the normal standards and requirements of
the other chapters of this title. The PUD may provide amenities not otherwise
required by ordinance and may establish facilities and open space greater than
the minimum required.
   D.   The PUD district is an overlay district in addition to the underlying
residential zoning district(s). In this chapter, the term "underlying zoning
district" means that residential zoning district (either district No. 1,
single-family, district No. 2, two-family, or district No. 3, multi-family)
which a tract is zoned at the time of application for amendment to a PUD
district. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses in a PUD district shall include the following,
provided such permitted uses are also listed as permitted uses for the
underlying zoning district:
Accessory uses, as defined in other sections of this title.
Churches, parish houses, convents or Sunday schools.
Condominiums not exceeding four (4) dwelling units per building.
Libraries and museums.
Multi-family dwellings not exceeding four (4) dwelling units per building.
One-family detached dwellings.
Public, private or parochial educational uses.
Recreational uses.
Townhouses not exceeding four (4) contiguous or joined units.
Two-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-3: SPECIAL PERMITTED USES:
Special permitted uses shall include, but not be limited to:
Home occupations as defined in other sections of this title.
Hospitals. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-4: NET SITE AREA:
For property which is undeveloped, the minimum allowed property size for a PUD
shall be ninety thousand (90,000) square feet. For property which is already
developed, the minimum allowed property size for a PUD shall be sixty thousand
(60,000) square feet. Additional land may be added to an existing PUD if it is
adjacent (except for public roads), forms a logical addition to the existing
PUD and is under the same ownership or control. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-5: DENSITY:
The density for a PUD shall not exceed the average density of the underlying
zoning district(s). Density shall be determined by dividing the net project
area by the minimum lot size for the underlying zoning district. The net
project area shall not include public right of way, designated floodway or
projections of the tract having a width less than the minimum lot width of the
underlying zoning district. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-6: COVERAGE:
All buildings, including accessory buildings, shall not cover more than forty
percent (40%) of the net site area. Open space shall be not less than forty
percent (40%) of the project site area. Open space may include bike and
recreation paths, sidewalks, active and passive recreational uses, floodways
and flood hazard areas. Open space does not include parking areas, private
drives or private roadways. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-7: REQUIRED YARDS:
   A.   Front yard depth shall be at least thirty feet (30').
   B.   The required side yard along the perimeter of the PUD shall be at least
equal in width or depth to that of the adjacent zoning district.
   C.   All other yards shall be subject to approval during the zoning review
and approval process. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-8: BUILDING DISTANCES:
Residential buildings in the PUD property shall be no closer than the average
height of the two (2) buildings. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-9: PROCEDURE:
The owner(s), or a bona fide agent of the owner(s), of any tract of land may
petition for an amendment to zoning to adopt a PUD district in accordance with
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-10: CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   The petition for an amendment to include a PUD district shall be
accompanied by a concept plan. The concept plan shall contain the following
information:
      1.   A boundary survey at a scale of not less than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100');
      2.   Total area of the tract;
      3.   Abutting street names, width, route numbers, etc.;
      4.   Abutting zoning districts and the uses of each abutting tract;
      5.   Available public utilities and facilities;
      6.   Topographical data with maximum contour interval of ten feet (10');
      7.   Existing covenants, land use restrictions and related information,
including flood hazard boundaries; and
      8.   The proposed location and extent of the land uses, buildings,
streets, lots and other features.
   B.   Approval of the PUD district shall constitute an expression of approval
of the concept plan and shall serve as a guideline for the preparation of the
preliminary PUD plan.
   C.   To reduce the number of steps involved in the approval of a PUD
district, a preliminary PUD plan may be submitted in place of a concept plan.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-11: PRELIMINARY PUD PLAN:
   A.   The preliminary PUD plan shall be submitted in the same manner as
required for amendments to this title. The preliminary PUD plan shall be
submitted within six (6) months of the approval of the amendment to the PUD
district. Should the preliminary PUD plan not be submitted within such time,
the tract shall automatically revert to the underlying zoning district.
   B.   The preliminary PUD plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   All information required for tentative plats as stated in chapter 4
of this code. The topographical information shall extend at least one hundred
feet (100') beyond the tract boundary to provide sufficient information to
determine the impact on the adjacent properties and uses;
      2.   The underlying zoning district(s) of the tract and adjacent zoning
districts;
      3.   Open space intended to be dedicated for common use of all property
owners and the indicated purpose or use of the open space;
      4.   The location and arrangement of all proposed land uses, including
height and number of floors of all buildings (other than one- and two-family
dwellings) both above and below the finished grade;
      5.   A plan or statement showing the location and design of all
screening, including the type and height of such screening;
      6.   A plan or statement detailing the proposes agreements, provisions,
covenants, restrictions and conditions pertaining to the use, maintenance and
operation of common spaces;
      7.   Preliminary architectural plans for all buildings having sufficient
detail to permit an understanding of the style of the development, the design
of the buildings and the number, size and type of dwelling units;
      8.   Preliminary plans for proposed public and private facilities for
roads, sanitary sewers, storm drainage and erosion control, water supply,
lighting and grading;
      9.   A traffic impact analysis showing the effect of traffic generated by
the project on the surrounding roads;
      10.   A sequence development schedule showing the order of construction
of each principal functional element of the stages or units and the approximate
completion date for each stage or unit;
      11.   Information on the density of the residential units and the number
of dwelling units for each type; and
      12.   Tabulations showing the following;
         a.   Total project area,
         b.   Net project area,
         c.   Area covered by buildings,
         d.   Area covered by parking areas, private drives or private roads,
         e.   Area within a designated floodway,
         f.   Area within a designated 100-year flood hazard zone, but outside
a designated floodway, and
         g.   Area of open space proposed.
   C.   A final PUD plan may be submitted instead of a preliminary PUD plan if
the entire tract shall be developed at one time. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-12: FINAL PUD PLAN:
   A.   The final PUD plan shall be submitted in the same manner as an
amendment to this title. The final PUD plan shall, after approval, be recorded
in the same manner as required for final plats under title 10 of this code. The
final PUD plan must be submitted for approval within one year of the approval
of the preliminary PUD plan. Should the final PUD plan not be submitted within
such time, the tract shall automatically revert to the underlying zoning
district.
   B.   The final PUD plan shall conform to the preliminary PUD plan as
approved or with requested minor changes. The final PUD plan may be submitted
in stages conforming to the approved development schedule. If submitted in
stages, all final PUD plans must be submitted within five (5) years of the
approval of the preliminary PUD plan.
   C.   The final PUD plan shall be suitable for recording. The purposes of the
plan is to designate the land subdivided into conventional and unconventional
lots or units and common open areas, and designate building areas and public
land dedication. The final PUD plan must contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   An accurate legal metes and bounds description of the entire area
under immediate development within the PUD;
      2.   A subdivision plan containing all information required for a final
plat by title 10 of this code;
      3.   An accurate metes and bounds description of each separate
unsubdivided use area, including common space;
      4.   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed, except those on conventional lots to be subdivided;
      5.   All information required for the preliminary PUD plan in final form;
      6.   Architectural plans unless waived by the village board during
approval of the preliminary PUD plan;
      7.   Final common open space documents conveying to a municipal or public
corporation, nonprofit corporation, or entity established for the purpose of
benefiting the owners and residents of the PUD or retained by the developer
with legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the village attorney,
that the common open space shall be permanently preserved and maintained as
open area. All land conveyed to a nonprofit corporation or entity shall be
subject to the right of the corporation or entity to impose a legally
enforceable lien for maintenance and improvement of the common open space;
      8.   Final agreements, provisions, covenants or restrictions which shall
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the PUD; and
      9.   Final detailed public and private improvement plans as required by
title 10 of this code. Private roads shall be constructed to public road
standards unless otherwise approved by the village board during approval of the
preliminary PUD plan. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-13: MAJOR CHANGES:
   A.   A change in the approved preliminary PUD plan or an approved final PUD
plan that alters the concept or intent of the PUD shall only be approved by
application of a new preliminary PUD plan as previously described. Examples of
major changes include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   A change in usage;
      2.   A change in building configuration;
      3.   An increase in floor area or building height;
      4.   An increase in density;
      5.   A reduction of open space;
      6.   A change of location or increase in the areas of parking or private
drives or roadways;
      7.   A change in the location of public improvements or standards;
      8.   A change in the final governing agreement, provisions, covenants or
restrictions;
      9.   A change in the underlying zoning district; and
      10.   Any other major change.
   B.   All approved major changes in the final PUD plan shall be recorded as
amendments to the recorded final PUD plan. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-12-14: MINOR CHANGES:
Changes which do not alter the concept or intent of the approved preliminary or
final PUD plan may be approved by the enforcing authority of this title. "Minor
changes" are defined as any change which is not a major change. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
CHAPTER 13
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Generally
9-13-2: Cemeteries And Disposal Plants
9-13-3: Dwellings On Small Lots
9-13-4: Billboards And Advertising Signs
9-13-5: Buildings For Construction Purposes
9-13-6: Quarries, Landfills, And Topsoil Stripping
9-13-7: Trailers, Trailer Camps, And Camping Grounds
9-13-8: Reduced Lot Area
9-13-9: Visibility At Intersections
9-13-10: Terraces
9-13-11: Porches, Garages And Carports
9-13-12: Projecting Yard Features
9-13-13: Front Yard Depth
9-13-14: Reduction In Rear Yards
9-13-15: Heights
9-13-16: Garages, Filling Stations And Motor Vehicle Repair Shops
9-13-17: Establishments Containing Fire Hazards
9-13-18: Minimum Dwelling Area
9-13-19: Length Of Building Construction
9-13-20: Exterior Design Restrictions
9-13-21: Transition Requirements
9-13-22: Off Street Parking
9-13-23: Off Street Loading
9-13-24: Floodplain Management
9-13-25: Industrial Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS)
9-13-1: GENERALLY:
The provisions of this title shall be subject to such exceptions, additions or
modifications as provided by the supplementary regulations set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-2: CEMETERIES AND DISPOSAL PLANTS:
Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any other provisions of this title,
the board of appeals may permit erection or extension to existing cemeteries
and the existing sewage disposal plant; provided, however, that such erection
or extension is contiguous to present facilities. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-3: DWELLINGS ON SMALL LOTS:
Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any other provisions of this title,
the board of appeals may permit erection of a dwelling on any lot in districts
no. 2, 3, and 4, separately owned or under contract of sale and containing, at
the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this section, an area or
width smaller than that required for a one-family dwelling. Board of appeal
approval will not be required for the erection of a dwelling on any lot in
district no. 1, separately owned or under contract of sale and containing, at
the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this section, an area or
width smaller than that required for a one-family dwelling. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
9-13-4: BILLBOARDS AND ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   A.   District no. 2 and district no. 3 permitted signs: Professional signs,
real estate signs relating to the premises only, signs announcing home
occupations, not over one square foot in area; signs announcing construction
projects, and signs for public, charitable, educational and religious
institutions may be illuminated, but not over fifteen (15) square feet in area.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-5: BUILDINGS FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES:
Any structure used for construction purposes may be erected in any district;
provided, however, that within eighteen (18) months from the date of erection
of such structure it shall be modified or removed to comply with all provisions
of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-6: QUARRIES, LANDFILLS, AND TOPSOIL STRIPPING:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall strip, excavate or otherwise
remove topsoil for sale, or for use other than on the premises from which the
same shall be taken except in connection with the construction or alteration of
a building on such premises and excavation or grading incidental thereto,
except upon approval by the board of appeals as provided for in this title.
   B.   The excavation, quarrying or drilling of natural mineral or organic
deposits (except topsoil and water) for sale is prohibited in all districts.
   C.   Public and private landfill operations are subject to the following
provisions: waste products used for fill and natural soils must be well
compacted, level, alternating layers of more or less constant section with a
one foot (1') thick layer of natural soils occurring at least every four feet
(4') through the entire depth of the fill with all containers of any volume
pressed flat before placement as fill. Topsoil required to bring to fill to the
desired finished grade must be well compacted black dirt no less than four
inches (4") in thickness. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-7: TRAILERS, TRAILER CAMPS, AND CAMPING GROUNDS:
Temporary special permits for a trailer, trailer camp, camp or camping ground
for a period not exceeding one year may be granted by the village board in
residence district No. 2 after hearing before the board of appeals as provided
for in this title, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The consent in writing, duly acknowledged, of the property owners of
record of fifty percent (50%) of the lineal dimensions of the boundary lines
contiguous to the property for which such permit is sought shall be tiled with
such application.
   B.   At least ten (10) days' notice of such pending application is printed
in a local newspaper by the secretary of such board of appeals.
   C.   The number of persons to be accommodated in such camp shall not exceed
one for each five thousand (5,000) square feet of area within such grounds.
   D.   No trailer or camp building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of
any property line.
   E.   Any trailer or camp building used for dwelling purposes must be placed
upon a permanent foundation of masonry or concrete, must be connected to
municipal sewerage and water systems, and must be provided with inside running
water, toilet and cooking facilities.
   F.   No more than two (2) adults and two (2) children under twelve (12)
years of age shall reside in any one trailer unit. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-8: REDUCED LOT AREA:
No lot shall be so reduced in area that any required open space will be smaller
than prescribed in the regulations for the district in which the lot is
located. Whenever such reduction in lot area occurs, any building located on
the lot shall not thereafter be used until such building is altered,
reconstructed or relocated so as to comply with the area and yard requirements
applicable thereto. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-9: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
On a corner lot in any residence district no fence, wall, hedge or other
structure or planting more than three and one-half feet (31/2') in height shall
be erected, placed, or maintained within the triangular area formed by the
intersecting street lines and a straight line joining the street lines at
points which are thirty feet (30') distant from the point of intersection,
measured along the street lines. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-10: TERRACES:
A paved terrace shall not be considered in the determination of yard sizes or
coverage; provided, however, that such terrace is unroofed and unenclosed
except for open guard railings not over three feet (3') high and shall not
project into any yard to a point closer than four feet (4') from any lot line.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-11: PORCHES, GARAGES AND CARPORTS:
An unenclosed porch with roof may project into a required yard area a distance
not to exceed six feet (6') and shall not be considered in the determination of
yard sizes or coverage; provided, however, that such porch shall not be closer
than four feet (4') at any point to any lot line. Any enclosed porch, garage or
unenclosed carport shall be considered a part of the building in the
determination of yards and coverage. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-12: PROJECTING YARD FEATURES:
Bay windows, sills, belt courses, cornices and eaves and other architectural
features may project into any required yard not more than three feet (3'). Open
fire escapes may extend into any required yard not more than four and one-half
feet (41/2'). (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-13: FRONT YARD DEPTH:
In district No. 1, district No. 2 and district No. 3 each dwelling hereafter
erected shall have a front yard equal in depth to the average depth of the
front yards of the lots immediately adjacent thereto on either side, but no
front yard shall be less than ten feet (10'), nor need any front yard have a
greater depth than thirty feet (30'), except that each dwelling hereafter
erected fronting on state Route 38 shall have a front yard not less than forty
feet (40') in depth. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-14: REDUCTION IN REAR YARDS:
When a lot is less than one hundred feet (100') deep at the date of passage of
the ordinance codified in this title, such rear yard may be decreased one-
quarter (1/4) the distance that the lot depth is less than the one hundred feet
(100'); provided, however, that no rear yard shall be less than twenty feet
(20') in depth. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-15: HEIGHTS:
   A.   Exceptions: The height limitations of this title shall not apply to
church spires, belfries, cupolas, penthouses and domes not used for human
occupancy; nor to chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, bulkheads,
parapets, cornices, similar features, and necessary mechanical appurtenances
usually carried above roof level.
   B.   Height And Open Space: In any district any main building may be erected
to a height in excess of that specified for the district provided each front,
side and rear yard is increased one foot (1') for each one foot (1') of such
additional height. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-16: GARAGES, FILLING STATIONS AND MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SHOPS:
In district No. 5 plans for the erection or structural alteration of any garage
for more than five (5) motor vehicles, or of a filling station, or of a motor
vehicle repair shop, shall be approved by the board of appeals. The board may
require such change therein in relation to yards, location of pumps and
buildings and construction of buildings as it may deem best suited to ensure
safety, to minimize traffic difficulties and to safeguard adjacent properties.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-17: ESTABLISHMENTS CONTAINING FIRE HAZARDS:
In district No. 5 plans for the use, erection or alteration of any building or
lot for the storage, use or manufacture of materials or products of flammable
nature or the use of manufacturing processes employing fire hazards shall be
approved by the board of appeals. The board may require such change therein in
yards, location of machinery and buildings and construction buildings as it may
deem best suited to ensure safety, and to safeguard adjacent properties. (Ord.
609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-18: MINIMUM DWELLING AREA:
   A.   Any single-family residence, except trailers and camp buildings,
hereinafter erected and used for dwelling purposes shall have a habitable area
of not less than eight hundred fifty (850) square feet. Dwellings on small lots
in district No. 1 only, as described in section
9-13-3 of this chapter, shall have a habitable area of not less than seven
hundred twenty (720) square feet. Any two-family dwelling unit hereinafter
erected and used for dwelling purposes shall have a habitable area of not less
than eight hundred fifty (850) square feet per unit. Any multi-family dwelling
unit consisting of three (3) or more dwelling units shall have a habitable area
of not less than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet per unit.
   B.   Any efficiency apartment house hereinafter erected and used for
dwelling purposes shall have a habitable area of not less than five hundred
(500) square feet for each family housed therein; provided, however, that there
is in each family dwelling unit no less than one hundred sixty (160) square
feet of habitable area for each person over one year of age residing therein.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-19: LENGTH OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
All buildings erected after the passage of the ordinance codified in this title
shall be completed in all exterior details within eighteen (18) months from the
date of construction start. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-20: EXTERIOR DESIGN RESTRICTIONS:
The construction of any building the exterior design of which is intended to
resemble an item of clothing, or food, or mechanical device, or an igloo, tipi,
teapot, ice cream freezer, bottle, barrel, boat or objects of similar nature is
prohibited in all districts. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-21: TRANSITION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lots In Two Districts: Where a district boundary line divides a lot in
single or joint ownership of record at the time such line is adopted, the
regulations for the larger portion of the lot shall be extended to include the
entire lot.
   B.   Business Entrances On Residential Streets: Where a residential district
is bounded by a portion of district no. 4 or district no. 5, buildings for a
business use erected on those lots adjacent to residence districts shall have
front yard setbacks not less than one-half (1/2) the distance required for the
adjacent residential district.
   C.   Side Yard And Rear Yard Transition: Where a lot in a business district
abuts a lot in a residential district there shall be provided along such
abutting lines a yard equal in width or depth to that required in the
residential district.
   D.   Corner Lot Transition: On every corner lot in a residential district
there shall be provided on the side street a side yard equal in depth to the
required front yard depth on such side street. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-22: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   The following parking spaces shall be provided and satisfactorily
surfaced and maintained, by the owner of the property, for each building which,
after the date when the ordinance codified in this title becomes effective, is
erected, enlarged or altered for use for any of the following purposes:
      1.   Dwelling: At least two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit in
the building or buildings;
      2.   Office buildings: At least one parking space for each three hundred
(300) square feet of office floor area;
      3.   Industrial establishments: At least one parking space for each five
(5) employees.
      4.   Efficiency apartment house: At least one and one-half (11/2) parking
stalls per unit.
   B.   All parking spaces provided pursuant to this section shall be on the
same lot with the building, except that the board of appeals may permit the
parking spaces to be on any lot within five hundred feet (500') of the
building, if it is determined that it is impractical to provide parking on the
same lot with the building. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-23: OFF STREET LOADING:
The following loading spaces shall be provided and satisfactorily surfaced and
maintained by the owner of the property for each building which, after the date
when the ordinance codified in this chapter becomes effective, is erected,
enlarged or altered for use for any of the following purposes:
   A.   Stores: At least one loading space in side or rear yard for each store
and if net merchandising floor area exceeds five thousand (5,000) square feet
one additional loading space for each additional two thousand (2,000) square
feet or major fraction thereof;
   B.   Industrial: At least one loading space for each five thousand (5,000)
square feet or major fraction thereof devoted to such use. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-24: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:
The provisions of the floodplain management measures, as set forth in section
44 CFR 60.3(c) of the national flood insurance program, through the federal
emergency management agency, are adopted by reference in full and as
subsequently amended, as ordinances of the village, except where state flood
regulations are more restrictive than those set forth in 44 CFR 60.3(c), in
which case the state regulations shall apply. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-13-25: INDUSTRIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS):
The development of industrial wind energy conversion systems (exceeding 100 kw
[kilowatt] or 60 feet in height) within the village zoning jurisdiction and
within a radius of 1.5 miles surrounding the village zoning jurisdiction shall
not be permitted. (Ord. 716-11, 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-14-1: Board Of Appeals; Creation; Appointment
9-14-2: Board Of Appeals; Powers And Duties
9-14-3: Nonconforming Uses; Generally
9-14-4: Nonconforming Uses; Unsafe Structures
9-14-5: Nonconforming Uses; Alterations
9-14-6: Nonconforming Uses; Extensions
9-14-7: Nonconforming Uses; Exemptions
9-14-8: Nonconforming Uses; Restoration
9-14-9: Nonconforming Uses; Abandonment
9-14-10: Nonconforming Uses; Changes
9-14-11: Nonconforming Uses; Displacement
9-14-12: Nonconforming Uses; District Changes
9-14-13: Enforcement; Official Authority
9-14-14: Building Permits
9-14-15: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-14-16: Amendments To Title
9-14-17: Violation; Complaint
9-14-18: Fees
9-14-1: BOARD OF APPEALS; CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
A board of appeals is created. The board shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the village board to serve the
following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three (3)
years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6) years,
and one for seven (7) years. The successor to each member so appointed shall
serve a term of five (5) years. One of the members shall be named as chairman
at the time of his appointment. The board shall appoint a secretary from its
membership and shall prescribe rules for the conduct of its affairs. The board
shall meet on the first Thursday of each month; provided that there is business
to be addressed by the board, and at such other times as may be called by the
chairman with reasonable notice. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-2: BOARD OF APPEALS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of appeals shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law and
by this title, which are more particularly specified as follows:
   A.   Interpretation: Upon appeal from a decision by an administrative
official, to decide any question involving the interpretation of any provision
of this title, including determination of the exact location of any district
boundary if there is uncertainty with respect thereto;
   B.   Special Use Permits: To conduct a hearing on all applications for
special use permits for any of the uses for which this title requires the
obtaining of such permits from the board of appeals; or for the extension of a
building or use as such existed at the time of the passage of the ordinance
codified in this title into a contiguous more restrictive district for a
distance not exceeding fifty feet (50'); not for any other use or purpose. The
zoning board of appeals shall not recommend to the village board that any
special use permit be granted by the village board unless the board of appeals
finds that:
      1.   The use is listed in the title as a special permitted use.
      2.   All provisions of the title governing the issuance of such permits
are followed exactly.
      3.   The board of appeals has the duty of conducting hearings on
applications for special permits or special use permits and to make all of the
considerations and set forth all the findings in writing as is required for
variances, as stated in subsection C of this section. Said special permits,
uses or special use permits shall be heard before the board of appeals at a
public hearing, of which there shall be notice of the time and place of the
hearing published at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or more newspapers published in
the municipality, or, if no newspapers are published therein, then in one or
more newspapers with a general circulation within the municipality. The board
of appeals shall forward their recommendation for said special use permits,
special permits, or uses to the village board who shall grant or deny said
special use permit, or special permit or temporary special permit, without
further public hearing, by ordinance.
   C.   Variances: To conduct a hearing to vary or adopt the strict application
of any requirements of this title, and to recommend to the village board, which
shall have final power to determine and approve, variations exercisable by the
adoption of ordinances. The village board is to determine and vary the
application of any of the requirements of this title in harmony with their
general purpose and intent where there are practical difficulties or particular
hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of these
regulations relating to the use, construction, or alteration of buildings or
structures, or the use of land. The board of appeals is to consider, and the
village board is to consider, that standards of practical difficulties or
particular hardships, and it must be shown to the board of appeals and to the
village board, and finding shall be made that:
      1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone, and
      2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, and
      3.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
   D.   Variance Procedure: The recommendation of the board of appeals is to be
communicated in writing along with the above captioned findings to the zoning
officer of the village who shall submit it to the village board at the next
special or regular meeting. No such variation shall be made, except in a
specific case and after a public hearing before the board of appeals of which
there shall be a notice of the time and place of the hearing published at least
once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers published in the municipality, or, if no
newspapers are published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the municipality. This notice shall contain the particular
location for which the variation is requested, as well as a brief statement of
what the proposed variation consists. The corporate authorities, by ordinance,
without further public hearing, may adopt any proposed variation indicated to
it by the board of appeals, or may refer it back to the board of appeals for
further consideration, and any proposed variation which fails to receive the
approval of the board of appeals shall not be passed by the village board
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all trustees. Every
variation shall be accompanied by findings of facts and shall refer to any
exhibits containing plans and specifications for the proposed use or variation,
which shall remain a part of the permanent records of the board of appeals.
Findings of fact shall specify the reason or reasons for making the variation.
The terms of the relief granted shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion
or statement separate from the findings of fact of the board of appeals or
ordinance. Property for which relief has been granted shall not be used in
violation of the specific terms of the board of appeals' findings or the
findings recited in the ordinance, unless its usage is changed by further
findings of fact of the board of appeals and additional ordinances.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: To adopt such rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary from time to time to carry into effect the provisions of this
title.
   F.   Procedure: The board of appeals shall act in strict accordance with the
procedure specified by law and by this title. All appeals and applications made
to the board shall be in writing, on forms prescribed by the board. Every
appeal or applications shall refer to the specific provision of the ordinance
involved, and shall set forth exactly the interpretation that is claimed, the
use for which the special permit is sought, or the details of the variance that
is applied for and the grounds on which it is claimed that the variance should
be granted, as the case may be. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-3: NONCONFORMING USES; GENERALLY:
The lawful use of any building or land existing at the time of the enactment of
the ordinance codified in this title may be continued although such use does
not conform with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-4: NONCONFORMING USES; UNSAFE STRUCTURES:
Any structure or portion thereof declared to be unsafe by a proper authority
may be restored to a safe condition. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-5: NONCONFORMING USES; ALTERATIONS:
A nonconforming building may not be reconstructed or structurally altered
during its life to an extent exceeding in aggregate cost twenty five percent
(25%) of the assessed value of the building unless the building is changed to a
conforming use. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-6: NONCONFORMING USES; EXTENSION:
A nonconforming use shall not be extended, but the extension of a lawful use to
any portion of a nonconforming building which existed prior to the enactment of
the ordinance codified in this title shall not be deemed the extension of such
nonconforming use. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-7: NONCONFORMING USES; EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in plans,
construction or designated use of a building the construction of which has
begun prior to the enactment of the ordinance codified in this title and which
construction remains uncompleted prior to the enactment of the ordinance
codified in this title provided such construction shall be completed within one
year from date of enactment of the ordinance codified in this title. (Ord. 609,
4-9-2001)
9-14-8: NONCONFORMING USES; RESTORATION:
No building damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than fifty
percent (50%) of its assessed value shall be repaired or rebuilt except in
conformity with the regulations of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-9: NONCONFORMING USES; ABANDONMENT:
Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of one year,
such use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any future use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-10: NONCONFORMING USES; CHANGES:
Once changed to a conforming use no building or land shall be permitted to
revert to a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of
the same or higher classification, and when so changed to a higher
classification, such use thereafter shall not be changed to a lower
classification. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-11: NONCONFORMING USES; DISPLACEMENT:
No nonconforming use shall be extended to displace a conforming use. (Ord. 609,
4-9-2001)
9-14-12: NONCONFORMING USES; DISTRICT CHANGES:
Whenever the boundaries of a district are changed so as to transfer an area
from one district to another district of different classification, the
provisions of sections
9-14-3 through
9-14-11 of this chapter shall also apply to any nonconforming uses existing
therein. Whenever the principal permitted uses of a district are changed so as
to transfer the principal permitted uses therein to a special permitted use
therein or when the principal permitted uses of a district are changed to
another district of different classification, provisions of sections
9-14-3 through
9-14-11 of this chapter shall also apply to any nonconforming uses existing
therein. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-13: ENFORCEMENT; OFFICIAL AUTHORITY:
This title shall be enforced by the zoning officer who shall perform such duty
in addition to present duties without additional compensation. (Ord. 609, 4-9-
2001)
9-14-14: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, added to or structurally
altered until a permit therefor has been issued by the zoning officer. Except
upon a written order of the board of appeals, no such building permit, or
certificate of occupancy, shall be issued for any building where the
construction, addition or alteration of use thereof would be in violation of
any of the provisions of this title.
   B.   There shall be submitted with all applications for building permits two
(2) copies of a layout or plot plan drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of the building or accessory building to be erected and such other information
as may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this title.
   C.   One copy of such layout or plot plan shall be returned when approved by
the zoning officer together with such permit to the applicant upon payment of a
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for structures less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet and fifty dollars ($50.00) for structures of one thousand
(1,000) square feet or greater. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-15: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected or
extended shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the zoning officer, stating that the building or proposed use
thereof complies with the provisions of this title.
   B.   All certificates of occupancy shall be applied for coincident with the
application for a building permit. The certificates shall be issued within ten
(10) days after the erection or alteration has been approved as complying with
the provisions of this title.
   C.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of or
repairs to any building shall be issued until an application has been made for
a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-16: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE:
   A.   The village board may from time to time on its own motion, or on
petition, or on recommendation of the plan commission amend, supplement, or
repeal the regulations and provisions of this title.
   B.   Every such proposed amendment or change whether initiated by the
village board or by petition shall be referred to the board of appeals for
report thereon resulting from public hearing as provided in subsection C of
this section.
   C.   The board of appeals, by resolution adopted at a stated meeting, shall
fix the time and place of public hearing on the proposed amendments and cause
notice to be given not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days before the hearing by publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or
more newspapers published in the municipality, or, if no newspapers are
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the municipality.
   D.   In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the zoning officer,
the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of all the trustees of the village. In such cases, a copy of the written
protest shall be served by the protester or protesters on the applicant for the
proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by
certified mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the
application for the proposed amendment.
   E.   Whenever the owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the street
frontage in any district or any specified part thereof, present to the village
board a petition duly signed and acknowledged, requesting an amendment,
supplement, change, modification or repeal of the regulations prescribed for
the zoning maps including the district or specified part thereof, it shall by
the duty of the village board to hold a public hearing thereon and cause notice
thereof to be given in the manner prescribed in subsection C of this section.
(Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-17: VIOLATION; COMPLAINT:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, any person may file a complaint in
regard thereto. Such complaints must be in writing and shall be filed with the
zoning officer, who shall properly record such complaint and immediately
investigate and report thereon. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
9-14-18: FEES:
The fee for all petitions for amendment to the zoning code, a variation of the
zoning code, and interpretation upon the appeal from the decision of an
administrative official or for a special permit for uses provided in the zoning
code, shall be one hundred fifteen dollars ($115.00) which includes the cost of
publishing the required notice. (Ord. 609, 4-9-2001)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-4: Scope Of Regulations
10-1-5: Interpretation
10-1-6: Variations
10-1-7: Action On Documents
10-1-8: Permits Required
10-1-9: Penalty
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE FOR THE VILLAGE OF FRANKLIN GROVE, LEE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 610,
4-9-2001)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations herein set out are adopted:
   A.   For the purpose of promoting and protecting the public health, safety
and general welfare; to provide for a permanently wholesome community
environment; to conserve, protect and enhance property and property values; and
to secure the most efficient use of land.
   B.   To provide for orderly growth and development; to prevent scattered
development beyond existing public utilities and facilities; and to facilitate
the adequate but economical provision of public improvements.
   C.   To limit and control the pollution of the environment; to safeguard the
public against flood damage; and to preserve and enhance historical sites and
natural features.
   D.   To prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the subdivision
and platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width and course
of streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements and
other essential improvements; and the provision of necessary public grounds for
schools, parks, playgrounds and other public open space.
   E.   To establish procedures for the submission, approval and recording of
plats; to facilitate the village of Franklin Grove in reviewing development
plans; and to provide the means for enforcement and to provide penalties for
violations. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, the terms and words used herein shall be
used, interpreted and defined as follows:
ALLEY: A strip of land along the side of or in the rear of lots intended to
provide secondary access to and from streets and such lots, and shall not be
designed for general travel.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways or
corporation boundary lines of the village.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Franklin Grove, Lee County, Illinois.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line, generally parallel with and measured from the
lot line, establishing the required distance between said lot line and the
permitted structure or building area.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
LOT: A portion or basic unit of a subdivision or other parcel of land fronting
on a public street and intended to be the unit by which such land would
individually be developed and transferred.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map adopted by the village board of trustees as provided by
law, showing the streets, highways, parks and drainage systems theretofore laid
out, and any amendments and additions thereto resulting from annexation,
approval and recording of new subdivision plats.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan adopted by the village board of trustees,
including all changes and amendments thereto duly adopted as provided by law.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership or trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient propriety interest in the land sought
to be subdivided for purposes of commencing and maintaining proceedings to
subdivide such land as provided by law.
PATHWAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for the purpose of providing
pedestrian and bicycle access to neighboring areas.
PLAN, CONCEPT: A general map or drawing on which the subdivider's schematic
design for the subdivision of land is presented for discussion purposes prior
to the expenditure of funds for preparing the preliminary plan.
PLAN, PRELIMINARY: A detailed map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's
design for the subdivision of land is presented and which he submits in form
for review and approval but not for recording.
PLAT, FINAL: An accurate map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan
for the subdivision of land is presented and which he submits for final
approval and intends to record in final form.
PROTECTIVE COVENANT: Recorded conditions entered into between public and/or
private parties and constituting a restriction of the use of all or some
private property within a subdivision or development for the mutual benefit of
successor property owners, and to provide protection against undesirable
aspects of developments which would tend to impair the stability of values.
ROADWAY OR PAVEMENT: The paved area existing on the street right of way,
exclusive of sidewalks, driveways or related uses, and its width measured from
back of curb to back of curb.
STREET: The street right of way or easement, whether public or private, and
shall not be considered as the area of the paving or other improvement on the
street right of way unless such paving and improvement coincides with the
boundaries of such right of way.
STREET, PRIVATE: A street located on private property for the purpose of
providing vehicular access to that property.
STREET, PUBLIC: A street located within a dedicated right of way for the
purpose of providing vehicular access.
STREET TYPES:
Collector Or Secondary Street: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance and
circulation streets of residential areas and having direct access to abutting
properties permitted.
Cul-De-Sac: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround at the other end.
Half Street: A street having less than the full width right of way within the
subdivision in question.
Marginal Access Or Frontage Street: A minor street which is parallel with and
adjacent to primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from fast, through-moving traffic on primary streets.
Minor Or Local Street: A street with limited continuity and used primarily as
access to abutting properties.
Primary Or Major Street: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the property lines abutting both
sides of a street right of way.
SUBDIVIDER: The owner or any other person, firm or corporation authorized by
the owner, undertaking proceedings under the provisions of the title for the
purpose of subdividing land. The terms "applicant", "developer", and
"subdivider" are interchangeable.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, or any division
of land which involves new streets or easements of access.
VILLAGE: The village of Franklin Grove, Lee County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ATTORNEY: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
providing legal counsel regarding municipal matters.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
municipal engineering matters.
VILLAGE PLANNER: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
municipal planning matters. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-4: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Whenever any subdivision or resubdivision of land shall hereafter be
laid out within the incorporated limits of the village or within territory not
more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the
village and not within the corporate limits or planning jurisdictional
boundaries of another municipality, the subdivider thereof or his agent shall
submit subdivision plans to the village. Said plans, proposed improvements and
all procedures relating thereto shall in all respects by in full compliance
with the regulations contained in this title.
   B.   Until the plan or plans of the subdivision, streets or improvements
have been certified to and approved by the village board of trustees:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided or filed for record, not any street laid
out, nor any improvement made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within the proposed subdivision
shall be offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be
made or given.
      3.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas and electric service, street
lighting or grading or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by any
owner or owners or his or their agent.
   C.   All plans of the subdivision, streets or improvements, and all
offerings or dedications of land to the village for use as streets, highways,
alleys, paths, schools, parks or other public uses shall be referred to the
plan commission for review and recommendation before being accepted by the
village board of trustees.
   D.   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger,
logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the plan
commission may, before recommending approval, cause to be prepared a plan for
the entire area or neighborhood, for such use by the plan commission as an aid
in judging the proposed plat. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall
be held to be the minimum requirements.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive, the comparable
conditions imposed by any other rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations
which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements
shall govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this title are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
title shall govern.
   D.   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of the title shall be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption
of this title, and to the extent that said subdivision of land is in conflict
in any manner with the requirements of the title, said subdivision of land
remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   In cases where there are particular difficulties or peculiar hardships
in carrying out the literal provisions of the title, the plan commission may
recommend to the board of trustees that a variation from such provisions be
granted.
   B.   Such plan commission's recommendations and reasons for recommending
such variation shall be made in writing, setting forth all pertinent facts and
circumstances of the case. Such recommendation may be made by referring the
variation matter to the board of trustees before the plan commission makes any
further consideration of or takes any further action on the subdivision
applications in question; or such recommendation may be made at the same time
that the plan commission recommends action on the entire subdivision
application. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-7: ACTION ON DOCUMENTS:
All plans, plats and other material submitted as herein required shall be
considered at regularly scheduled meetings of the village board or the plan
commission. Additional meetings and/or work sessions may be held if requested
by the subdivider and approved by the village board and/or plan commission,
provided that:
   A.   Said meetings and/or work sessions are publicly announced.
   B.   The subdivider shall pay a fee to the village for said meeting or work
session. The fee shall be established from time to time by the village board
but in no case shall it be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per meeting.
   C.   The subdivider shall reimburse the village for the cost of the village
engineer, village planner and/or village attorney to prepare information for
and to attend such meetings and/or work sessions. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-8: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building or structure on any land or lot
within a "subdivision", as herein defined, which has been approved for platting
or replatting, until the final plat has been recorded and until the required
improvements have been installed or are being installed to the satisfaction of
the board of trustees.
   B.   Occupancy Permit: No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing
official for the use of any structure within any subdivision approved for
platting or replatting until required utility facilities have been installed
and made ready to service the property, and that all other required
improvements have been constructed or are in the course of construction and are
suitable for use. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this title shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Concept Plan And Preapplication Conference
10-2-2: Preliminary Plan
10-2-2-1: Preparation
10-2-2-2: Filing Of Preliminary Plan
10-2-2-3: Notification Of Local Governments
10-2-2-4: Notification Of Surrounding Property Owners
10-2-2-5: Consideration By Plan Commission
10-2-2-6: Fees
10-2-2-7: Consideration By Board Of Trustees
10-2-2-8: Effect Of Approval Of Preliminary Plan
10-2-3: Installation Of Survey Monuments
10-2-4: Plans And Specifications For Required Improvements
10-2-5: Final Plat
10-2-5-1: Preparation
10-2-5-2: Filing Of Final Plat
10-2-5-3: Consideration By Plan Commission
10-2-5-4: Consideration By Board Of Trustees
10-2-5-5: Recording
10-2-6: Plat Forms
10-2-1: CONCEPT PLAN AND PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
   A.   Initial Inquiry: Prior to filing an application for approval of the
preliminary plan, the subdivider shall secure from the village the following
material:
      1.   Summary of the development review procedure.
      2.   Concept plans, preliminary plan and final plan checklists.
      3.   One page concept information form.
      4.   Application for preliminary plat approval.
      5.   Application for final plat approval.
      6.   Related ordinances.
   B.   Concept Submittals: The applicant shall complete and submit to the
village ten (10) copies of the concept information form accompanied by the
following material:
      1.   Location map, drawn at a scale of one thousand feet to the inch (1"
= 1,000'), showing the existing community facilities within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the proposed subdivision; including the name and location of
main traffic arteries, public transportation lines, sewage and utility lines,
water mains and drainage pattern, shopping areas, elementary and high schools,
parks and playgrounds, fire stations, principal places of employment, other
community features such as railroad stations, airports, hospitals, and
churches, scale, north arrow and date. The location of all land owned or under
option by the subdivider shall be shown on the map.
      2.   Concept plan shall show in simple sketch form, on topographic
survey, the boundaries of the plat and the existing conditions on and within
two hundred feet (200') of the site; include existing natural features such as
wooded areas, low areas subject to flooding, drainage patterns, bodies of water
and other significant features such as unique vegetation, geological conditions
and wildlife habitats; include existing manmade features such as buildings,
barns, bridges, historical sites, underground utilities, rights of way,
easements, other structures and the present zoning or planned use according to
the official plan; include, preferably on an acetate or Mylar overlay, the
proposed land uses, points of access, drainage pattern, storm water retention
and detention areas, open space, public sites, title of subdivision, scale,
north arrow and date.
      3.   General soils map, as prepared by the USDA soil conservation service
(Amboy, Illinois).
This step does not require formal application or fee. The plan commission or
its representative shall examine the submittals in order to determine their
adequacy for presentation and discussion at a concept conference as described
in subsection C of this section. When satisfied, the plan commission shall
direct its representative or the applicant to transmit copies of the concept
information form to the following, at least thirty five (35) days prior to said
concept conference:
President and board of trustees
Chairman, zoning board of appeals
Superintendent, School District #271
Franklin Grove fire protection district
   C.   Concept Conference: A conference shall be held with the subdivider, the
plan commission and other local government officials in order to:
      1.   Discuss the site in relation to the surrounding area.
      2.   Discuss the existing conditions on and adjacent to the site.
      3.   Mutually identify potential problems of the proposed subdivision in
relation to the existing conditions of the area, the official map and official
plan, zoning ordinance and other local goals, objectives, ordinances and plans.
      4.   Inform the subdivider of the procedure for subdividing land and of
the filing and review fees and bonding requirements.
The subdivider may request additional concept meetings with the plan commission
and other local government officials in order to continue the discussions. Said
meetings are for the purpose of providing information only, and the subdivider
has the burden of assessing the effect of the information on the proposed
subdivision. No formal action shall be taken by the plan commission at the
completion of the concept meetings. The decision to proceed or abandon the
proposed subdivision rests solely with the subdivider. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
10-2-2-1: PREPARATION:
Subsequent to and in accordance with the information provided during the
concept conference, the subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plan of
subdivision. The preliminary plan shall comply with the provisions of section
10-2-1 of this chapter and shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred feet to the
inch (1" = 100"), or fifty feet to the inch (1" = 50') if the area of
subdivision is less than forty (40) acres. It shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Location And Description:
      1.   Name of the proposed subdivision which shall not duplicate the name
of any plat heretofore recorded in Lee County.
      2.   Legal description of land proposed to be subdivided, by section,
township and range, and other terms as used in describing such land on the
records of the recorder of deeds, Lee County, Illinois.
      3.   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision, including bearing and
dimensions, as prepared and certified by a land surveyor registered in
Illinois.
      4.   Total acreage, within the boundaries of the tract.
      5.   Names and addresses of the owner, owner of record (including the
names and addresses of all beneficiaries of any land trust, accompanied by a
certified copy of the trust agreement and all amendments thereto), the
subdivider, the surveyor, the engineer and land planner who designed the plan.
      6.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining
parcels of unsubdivided land.
      7.   Date, scale and north point.
   B.   Existing Conditions (On And Within Two Hundred Feet Of The Tract):
      1.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2') with reference to USGS datum, except in unusual
topographic conditions when such vertical intervals may be required to be
altered as determined by the village engineer.
      2.   Soil types, as outlined by a soil scientist.
      3.   Other natural features such as source of water supply, watercourses
(with highest flood levels indicated), marshes, ponds, springs, rock outcrop,
wooded areas, isolated preservable trees six inches (6") or more in caliper at
one foot (1') above ground level, and other features.
      4.   Existing improvements, including the location, widths and names of
all existing or previously platted streets or other rights of way showing type
of improvement (if any), railroad and utility rights of way, parks and other
public open spaces, buildings and structures, historic sites and landmarks.
      5.   Existing improvements, including the location, capacity and size of
domestic water supply, water mains, sewer lines, culverts, drainage or farm
tile, towers, poles and other underground and aboveground facilities, also
indicating such data as local conditions and surface and invert grade
elevations of catch basins, manholes and fire hydrants. If water mains and
sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract, indicated the direction and
distance to and the size of the nearest usable facilities. (If requested,
additional drawings, maps or photographs shall be submitted in order to
accurately locate existing features.)
      6.   Easements, including location, width and purpose.
      7.   Political boundaries, including corporate limits, school, park and
fire protection district boundaries and national and local historic district
boundaries.
   C.   Proposed Subdivision Design Features:
      1.   Proposed zoning.
      2.   Layout of streets, including right of way widths, street names (not
duplicating or similar to the name of any street heretofore used in China
Township unless such street is an extension or in line with an already named
street, in which event the name shall be used), and proposed through streets
extended to the boundaries of the subdivision and approximate grades and
gradients.
      3.   Other rights of way including location and width of alleys,
pedestrianways, drainageways and utility and other easements.
      4.   Lots, including layout, number, dimension and area (in square feet),
for each lot in the subdivision.
      5.   Setback lines, including front and side street building setback
lines and dimensions.
      6.   Location of utilities, including proposed method of sewage and waste
disposal and location of sewer lines, water mains, storm water drains and
surface drainage for each lot or building area, and method of storm water
detention and retention.
      7.   When recommended by the village engineer and required by the plan
commission, the subdivider shall submit detailed grading plans of blocks and
lots. No land will be approved for subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains inadequate drainage facilities or other topographic
and soil conditions which may increase danger to health or property, or
aggravate erosion or flood hazard unless the subdivider agrees to make
improvements which will, in the opinion of the village engineer and plan
commission, make such land safe for development and occupancy.
      8.   Sites intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use or set
aside for use of property owners in the subdivision, including the conditions,
if any, of such dedication or reservation.
      9.   Land use designations, including sites for multiple-family
dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry and other nonpublic uses
exclusive of single-family dwellings with the approximate acreage of each
indicated.
   D.   Approval Certificate: The following certificate shall be shown in the
lower right hand corner of the preliminary plan:
   APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN
The preliminary plan of a subdivision shown hereon has received approval by the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Franklin Grove, Illinois, and upon
compliance by the subdivider with requirements of qualifications governing the
approval of preliminary plans and with other revisions and stipulations that
may be required, the Village Board will receive the final plat for
consideration when submitted by the subdivider in such form and within such
time as required by the Village subdivision regulations, and approved by the
Plan Commission. Approval of the subdivision is only preliminary. Approval
allows the subdivider to prepare improvement plans and/or a final plat.
      Date:                      , 20                 .
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Franklin Grove, Illinois
By    
President
   Attest:       
      Village Clerk
(Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-2: FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAN:
The subdivider shall submit to the village clerk the following documents, not
less than ten (10) days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
plan commission.
   A.   Fifteen (15) copies of the completed application for preliminary plan
approval.
   B.   Fifteen (15) copies of a preliminary plan of subdivision.
   C.   Filing fee: This fee shall be as follows:
      15 lots or less   $60.00
      Each lot in excess of 15 lots   5.00
      For a PUD   10.00 per acre
The fee shall be paid in cash, by money order or certified check made payable
to the village.
   D.   Concept plan, as prepared by the divider for discussion during the
concept conference.
   E.   Location map, as prepared by the subdivider for discussion during the
concept conference.
   F.   Natural resources inventory, prepared by the Lee County soil and water
conservation district as required by Illinois statute.
   G.   Soils report, prepared by a professional soils engineer of sufficient
scope which addresses itself to the natural resources identified in the report
prepared by the Lee County soil and water conservation district, and which
determines potential ground absorption, runoff, flooding deficiencies, the
presence of unstable soils (or soils which may constitute problems for
conventional construction), the presence of subsurface rock that would affect
the installation of underground improvements on the provisions of aboveground
improvement. If, in the opinion of the village engineer, additional soil
investigations, borings or other soil tests are necessary to determine the
nature and extent of such questionable material, the subdivider shall perform
the needed investigation.
   H.   Preliminary engineering report(s) and plan(s), but not limited to the
consideration of the following:
      1.   Community or individual water facilities.
      2.   Streets and sidewalks.
      3.   Site grading and erosion and siltation control.
      4.   Storm sewers and drainage plan for the storage and controlled
release of storm water following a 100-year frequency storm. (The design
standards shall be according to those contained in the specifications for
required improvements, storm water control, on file with the village engineer.)
      5.   Community or waste water facilities. In areas where septic systems
are to be anticipated for the proposed method of waste disposal, evidence shall
be presented to indicate the suitability of soil for the purpose of septic
waste simulation.
   I.   Evidence of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided. Where the
subdivider does not own such land, written notarized permission from the owner
shall be provided authorizing the subdivider to subdivide such land under the
provisions of this title.
   J.   Letter of approval from the mortgagor.
   K.   Letter of approval from each utility company utilizing the proposed
easements.
   L.   Text of protective covenants, deed restrictions, homeowners'
association contracts and other restrictions whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the proposed
development.
   M.   Environmental, fiscal and transportation impact reports and other
information as requested by the plan commission.
   N.   Preliminary plan checklist, signed by the applicant indicating that all
items necessary for review have been submitted.
The plan commission or its representative shall examine the preliminary plan
documents at their next regularly scheduled meeting followings the submittal of
such documents. The preliminary plan shall be considered officially filed when
it is found to contain the information essential for the proper review by the
plan commission as is required by this title. Lack of information shall be
deemed cause for refusing official ruling. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-3: NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS:
When satisfied that sufficient information is presented in the preliminary plan
and other supportive documents, the plan commission shall instruct a village
official or the applicant to transmit copies of the application for preliminary
plan approval to the following, not less than twenty (20) days prior to the
next meeting at which the plan is to be considered:
Village president.
Village engineer.
Chairman, zoning board of appeals.
Superintendent, School District #271.
Fire chief, Franklin Grove fire protection district. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-4: NOTIFICATION OF SURROUNDING PROPERTY OWNERS:
In order to allow property owners surrounding the proposed site to provide
information helpful to a proper review of the preliminary plan, one or both of
the following activities shall be undertaken as decided by the plan commission:
   A.   The applicant shall, not less than ten (10) days and not more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of said meeting, serve written notice either
in person or by certified mail to the last known taxpayers as reflected in the
county records of all property within two hundred fifty feet (250') in each
direction of the location for which the subdivision is requested; provided the
number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, rivers, creeks,
schools, parks and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two
hundred fifty foot (250') requirement. The notices herein required shall
contain the address of the location for which the preliminary plat of
subdivision is requested, a brief statement of the nature of the request, the
name and the address of the legal and beneficial owner of the property, and
time and date on which said meeting shall be held. If, after a bona fide effort
to determine such by the applicant, the owner of the property on which the
notice is served cannot be found at his last known address or the mail notice
is returned because the owner cannot be found, the notice requirements of this
section shall be deemed satisfied. The applicant shall furnish, at the time of
said meeting, a written statement certifying that he has complied with the
requirements of this subsection. Attached to the written statement shall be a
copy of the notice sent and a list of all property owners notified in
accordance with the above. Also attached shall be the returned receipts of
those notices delivered and those notices which were undeliverable by the post
office; and/or
   B.   The village shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation,
notice of the time and place where the public may comment on the preliminary
plan. The notice shall be published in said newspaper not less than ten (10)
days prior to the public meeting where comments may be given. (Ord. 610, 4-9-
2001)
10-2-2-5: CONSIDERATION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
The plan commission shall review the preliminary plan and other documents with
the subdivider, citizens and other local government official. In cases where
the subdivision of land involves a variation or exception from the zoning
ordinance or a special use permit, the plan commission shall direct the
applicant to submit the preliminary plan to the zoning board of appeals for
their review.
Within ninety (90) days of the official filing of the preliminary plan with the
plan commission, unless such time is extended by mutual consent, the plan
commission shall recommend to the village board for its action:
   A.   Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plan and shall submit its
written recommendations, which may include the recommendations of the village
engineer, village attorney, village planner, citizens and other government
officials, to the board of trustees and to the subdivider; or
   B.   Conditional approval of the preliminary plan, and shall submit its
recommendations and modifications to the board of trustees and to the
subdivider. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-6: FEES:
   A.   Review Fee: During the course of their review, the plan commission may
submit the preliminary plan to the village engineer, village planner and/or
other technical consultant in order to obtain assistance for the proper review
of said plan. The subdivider shall be notified that technical assistance has
been sought in accordance with these regulations. The village engineer, village
planner and/or other technical consultant shall submit their itemized bill for
services to the village which shall transmit a bill to the subdivider. Said
bill for services shall be set by the village at a rate normally charged for
such professional services and shall include all travel and other expenses
normally charged to the village. The subdivider shall pay the village for the
services rendered within ten (10) days after the submission of the bill from
the village to him.
   B.   Attorney Fees: In addition, the village and the applicant may enter
into an agreement for the payment of attorney fees required to properly
evaluate the preliminary plan and supportive documents. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-7: CONSIDERATION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The board of trustees shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the
preliminary plan within thirty (30) days after its next regularly scheduled
meeting following the action of the plan commission, unless such time is
extended by mutual consent. The subdivider shall, within thirty (30) days
thereof, be notified in writing of any conditions of approval or the reasons
for rejection. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-2-8: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN:
Approval by the board of trustees at this stage does not constitute acceptance
of the subdivision. Approval of the preliminary plan shall be:
   A.   Considered permission to prepare detailed plans and specification for
such proposed subdivision and for all public improvements therein;
   B.   Effective for no more than twelve (12) months from the date approval
was granted unless, upon application of the subdivider within the period that
such approval is valid, the board of trustees grants an extension of time
beyond such period. The application for such extension shall not require an
additional filing fee.
If a final plat has not been approved as required by the provisions of this
title within such twelve (12) month period, or any extension granted thereto,
the preliminary plan must be resubmitted to the plan commission as if such plan
had never been approved. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-3: INSTALLATION OF SURVEY MONUMENTS:
After approval of the preliminary plan and before undertaking other measures
leading to approval of the final plat, survey monuments and markers shall be
laid out and set according to the following:
   A.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points
tangent to curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be constructed of concrete, the minimum dimensions of which
shall be four inches by four inches (4" x 4") at the top of the monument and
six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at the bottom; such monument shall be a
minimum of thirty six inches (36") long, with an iron dowel at least three-
eighths inch (3/8") in diameter and two and one-half inches (21/2") in length
embedded in the top of such monument so that the dowel shall be flush with the
surface of the monument and placed in the center of the monument.
   B.   Where concrete monuments are not required to be placed, all corner
lots, the ends of all curves, all angle points in any line and all angle points
along a meander line shall be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe at
least twenty four inches (24") long and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in
diameter. The top of such pipe shall be set level with the established grade
for each lot.
   C.   For each twenty (20) acres or fraction thereof in such subdivision, one
permanent bench mark shall be established at a location designated by the
village engineer. This bench mark shall be constructed of concrete, four inches
by four inches (4" x 4") at the top, six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at the
bottom, and forty eight inches (48") in length with a brass plate securely
fastened to the surface. The brass plate shall be exposed about one inch (1")
above final grade and shall be inscribed with the number and elevation of the
bench mark.
All U.S., state, county or other official bench marks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-4: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Preparation: After the installation of survey monuments and markers,
unless required sooner, and prior to the submission of a final plat, the
subdivider shall prepare detailed plans and specifications for all improvements
required to be constructed under the provisions of this title.
   B.   Preliminary Review: The plans and specifications for required
improvements shall be submitted to the plan commission. The plan commission
shall transmit said plans and specifications to the. village engineer for
review to determine their compliance with the provisions of this and other
applicable ordinances. Such plans and specifications shall also be reviewed by
appropriate state, county and local officials and utility companies concerned
with such improvements, and approval from these officials shall be given in
writing respecting their particular interests. Following the aforesaid review
by the village engineer and the other officials concerned, the plan commission
shall transmit said plans and specifications to the board of trustees,
accompanied by the recommendations of the village engineer and letters of
approval from the aforesaid officials where applicable.
   C.   Review Fees: Prior to the consideration of the plans and specifications
for required improvements by the village board, the subdivider shall reimburse
the village for the fees involved in the review and processing of said plans
and specifications.
   D.   Cooperation With Neighboring Jurisdictions: Where a proposed storm
water improvement may result in changes to an existing storm water carrying
system of neighboring upstream or downstream communities, copies of the storm
water improvement plans and specifications shall be submitted to the affected
communities. Where the proposed improvement may affect the storm water carrying
system of a site occupied by or planned for development by a school and/or park
district, copies of the plans and specifications shall be forwarded to the
affected districts.
The affected communities and/or taxing districts shall be given written
notification of such proposed improvements and shall be requested to respond to
the village having jurisdiction over the proposed improvements. Such response
shall be submitted in writing within fifteen (15) days upon receipt of such
request. If any alterations to the plans and specifications are requested by
the affected communities and/or taxing districts, and if such alterations are
in accordance with the plans and standards of such affected local governments,
the village having jurisdiction may require the applicant to revise the plans
and specifications in accordance with the requests of the affected governments.
   E.   Final Approval: If the board of trustees finds that the plans and
specifications for required improvements comply with the provisions of this and
other applicable ordinances, it shall grant final approval to such plans and
specifications. The village engineer and the village president shall thereupon
affix their signatures to the plans and specifications, then the village clerk
shall attest such signatures. Final approval, however, shall not constitute
acceptance of the improvements by the village. Such acceptance shall be
governed by the provisions of section 10-5-5 of this title. (Ord. 610, 4-9-
2001)
10-2-5: FINAL PLAT:
10-2-5-1: PREPARATION:
After the installation of survey monuments and markers, a final plat of
subdivision shall be prepared. The final plat may constitute only a portion of
the approved preliminary plan if it is determined acceptable by the plan
commission after consideration by the plan commission of the effect upon the
continuity of roads, utilities and services. The final plat shall be accurately
and legibly prepared with waterproof, nonfading ink on a tracing cloth or Mylar
reproducible print measuring no less than eight and one-half inches by fourteen
inches (81/2" x 14") but no more than thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x
36") (24 inches by 26 inches preferred), at the same scale as the preliminary
plan, and shall be used as the original copy of such final plat for the
purposes of formal execution, approval and recording. The final plat shall
include the following information:
   A.   Date of preparation of the final plat and by whom prepared.
   B.   Seal and certification of land surveyor.
   C.   Scale, which shall be one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100') or fifty
feet to the inch (1" = 50'), if the area of subdivision is less than forty (40)
acres.
   D.   North point.
   E.   Legal description.
   F.   Layout of streets, showing right of way widths, street names and the
length of all streets as measured at the centerline, and the location and
widths of all crosswalkways. The location, right of way widths and names of all
streets adjoining the plat shall also be shown.
   G.   All easements established for public use and utility rights of way,
with approval of the utility companies marked on the plat.
   H.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions given in
hundredths of feet.
   I.   Proposed building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
   J.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of all areas dedicated or
reserved for public use, with the deed to be transferred included; and all
areas to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of all property
owners, together with the proposed uses indicated thereon.
   K.   Water elevations of all lakes and streams within or adjoining the tract
at the date of survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such
lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred approximately to USGS datum.
If the subdivision borders on a lake or streams, the distances and bearings of
a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back from the
average high water mark of the lake or stream, as determined from flood hazard
maps or other data, with said distances noted.
   L.   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles radii and
arcs used to describe all boundaries including perimeter survey of tract,
streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use,
and other important features. Error of closure of boundary line surveys shall
not exceed one in ten thousand (1 foot for each 10,000 feet) of perimeter
survey. Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20) seconds.
   M.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines and
official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described in
the plat by location, size and elevation, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
   N.   Municipal, township, county and section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
   O.   Certificates, as shown in section
10-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-5-2: FILING OF FINAL PLAT:
Within one year after approval of the preliminary plan, the subdivider shall
submit the following documents to the village clerk not less than ten (10) days
prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the plan commission:
   A.   Fifteen (15) copies of the completed application for final plat
approval.
   B.   The original tracing cloth or Mylar of the final plat, which shall be
returned to the applicant upon final plat approval for recording with the
county recorder of deeds.
   C.   One copy of the final plat, drawn on sepia for future use by the
village in its planning and development activities.
   D.   Fifteen (15) copies of the final plat of subdivision to be used for
review by village officials.
   E.   Five (5) copies of the plans and specifications for all improvements
required under chapter 5 of this title.
   F.   Filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   G.   Reimbursement statement, whereby the subdivider agrees to reimburse the
village for all costs incurred by the village for the review of the final plat
submittals. Such fees shall be paid by the subdivider prior to final plat
approval.
   H.   Performance guarantee, in the amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the estimated costs of the required subdivision improvements, as
approved by the village engineer, in order to ensure that the work is performed
according to the plans and specifications and according to good engineering
practices. Such guarantee shall be in accordance with subsection 10-5-1A1 of
this title.
   I.   Inspection statement, whereby the subdivider agrees to provide
inspection in accordance with subsection 10-5-3A of this title.
   J.   Text of protective covenants, deed restrictions, homeowners'
association contracts and other restrictions relating to any part of the
proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, building restrictions, use
restrictions, building setback lines, buffer areas, common open space,
maintenance of improvements, etc.
   K.   Final plat checklist, signed by the applicant indicating that all items
necessary for review have been submitted.
   L.   The final plat shall not be considered until the following certificates
have been duly executed:
Owner's certificate.
Surveyor's certificate.
Certificate of special assessments.
County clerk's certificate.
The village clerk shall transmit the final plat and accompanying material to
the plan commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the final
plat submittal. The final plat shall be considered officially filed when the
plan commission determines that it contains all the information essential for
its proper review according to the provisions of this title. The plan
commission shall refer the final plat to the village engineer and others it
deems necessary in order to make such proper determination. (Ord. 610, 4-9-
2001)
10-2-5-3: CONSIDERATION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
When satisfied that sufficient information is presented in the final plat and
other supportive documents, the plan commission shall transmit the material to
the village engineer, village attorney and others it deems necessary for a
proper review. Within thirty (30) days from the date of final plat submittal,
unless such time is extended by mutual consent, the plan commission shall
determine if the final plat meets all applicable village requirements. If the
plan commission finds that the final plat is not in accordance with the village
requirements, it shall disapprove such plat and provide written notification to
the board of trustees stating the reasons for such disapproval. If the plan
commission determines that the final plat meets all applicable village
requirements, it shall affix upon the final plat the certifying signature of
its chairman and secretary, and shall submit the final plat and accompanying
documents to the board of trustees. The plan commission may also recommend that
the village board consider other provisions prior to final plat approval. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-5-4: CONSIDERATION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
When final plat and accompanying documents have been forwarded to the board of
trustees by the plan commission, the board of trustees shall consider said plat
to be officially filed. Within sixty (60) days from the date of official
filing, unless such time is extended by mutual consent, the board of trustees
shall approve or disapprove the final plat. If the final plat is approved, the
chairman shall affix his signature to such plat in the space provided and the
village clerk shall attest such signature. If the final plat is disapproved,
the subdivider shall be given written notification of the reasons for such
disapproval. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-5-5: RECORDING:
Upon approval of the final plat by the village board, the final plat shall be
recorded within sixty (60) days thereof with the recorder of deeds of Lee
County, Illinois. If such recording is not effected within such time, the
approval by the village board shall become null and void, in which case the
deposits for surface improvements held by the village shall be refunded in full
to the depositor, without interest. The recording of the final plat is a
requirement for the selling of land or lots in the subdivision and for the
issuance of any building permit. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-2-6: PLAT FORMS:
The following plat forms shall be used to the extent possible as indicated:
   A.   Owner's Certificate: The final plat shall contain an owner's
certificate substantially as follows:
   OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
   STATE OF ILLINOIS )
      )SS
   COUNTY OF LEE )
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of the land described in
the annexed plat, and has caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided, as
indicated thereon, for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and does hereby
acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title thereon indicated.
The undersigned hereby dedicated for public use the lands shown on this plat
for thoroughfares, streets, alleys and public services; and hereby also
reserves for Verizon, ComEd, and Nicor, the easement provisions which are
stated on their standard form which is attached hereto.
WITNESS our hands and seals this            day of                , 20       .
   STATE OF ILLINOIS )
       )SS
   COUNTY OF LEE )
This is to certify that I,                      , am an Illinois Registered
Land Surveyor in compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois, and that
this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
                      ; that all monuments and markers shown thereon actually
exist, and that I have actually shown the materials that they are made of; that
all regulations enacted by the Board of Trustees relative to plats and
subdivisions have been complied with in the preparation of this plat.
               Signature
   (SURVEYOR'S SEAL)      
               Date
            Illinois Land Surveyor No.           
   B.   Special Assessments Certificate: The final plat shall contain a
certificate as special assessments substantially in the form as follows:
   CERTIFICATE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   STATE OF ILLINOIS )
       )SS
   COUNTY OF LEE )
I,                      , Village Treasurer of the Village of Franklin Grove,
do hereby certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited
special assessments or any deferred installments thereof that have been
apportioned against the tract of land included in the plat.
Dated at Franklin Grove, Lee County, Illinois, this            day of
         , 20            .
               Village Treasurer
   C.   County Clerk's Certificate: The final plat shall contain a county
clerk's certificate substantially in the form as follows:
   COUNTY CLERK CERTIFICATE
   STATE OF ILLINOIS )
       )SS
   COUNTY OF LEE )
I,                      , County Clerk of Lee County, Illinois, do hereby
certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes,
and no redeemable tax sales against any of the landed included in the annexed
plat.
Given under my hand and seal at Geneva, Lee County, Illinois, this       day of
                     , 20          .
               County Clerk
   D.   Certificate Of Approval: The final plat shall contain a certificate of
approval, as follows:
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
   STATE OF ILLINOIS )
       ) SS
   COUNTY OF LEE )
Under the authority provided by chapter 24, article 11, division 12 of the
Illinois Revised Statutes, as amended, enacted by the State Legislature of the
State of Illinois, and ordinance adopted by the Village Board of the Village of
Franklin Grove, Illinois, this plat was given approval by the Village of
Franklin Grove AND MUST BE RECORDED WITHIN SIXTY (60) DAYS OF THE DATE OF
APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE BOARD, OTHERWISE IT IS NULL AND VOID.
APPROVED by the Plan Commission at a meeting held on    
               Chairman
               Secretary
APPROVED BY THE Village Board of Trustees at a meeting held    
               President
               Village Clerk
APPROVED BY THE Village Engineer       
               Village Engineer
(Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Provisions
10-3-2: Street Layout And Design
10-3-3: Alleys
10-3-4: Block Standards
10-3-5: Lot Standards
10-3-6: Easements
10-3-7: Sidewalks
10-3-8: Landscaping
10-3-9: Pathways
10-3-10: Street Lighting
10-3-11: Street Signs And Guardrails
10-3-12: Storm Water Drainage
10-3-13: Sanitary Sewer System
10-3-14: Water System
10-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets, alleys, crosswalks, easements, sites for
parks, playgrounds and schools or other land to be dedicated for public use,
shall conform to the official plan and official map of the village of Franklin
Grove and approval of design standards shall be considered on the basis of
their relation to existing and platted streets, reasonable circulation of
traffic within the subdivision and adjacent land, topographic conditions,
runoff of storm water, public convenience and safety and appropriate relation
to the proposed land uses of the area to be served.
No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for subdivision by reason of
flooding, collection of ground water, poor drainage, adverse earth or rock
formation or topography. Land considered unsuitable for subdivision is defined
in the village comprehensive plan, which includes the China Township soil
survey map interpreted by use of the soil interpretation guide for urbanizing
areas. Soil limitation grounds R-1, R-2 and R-3 shall not be developed in the
absence of documentation that indicates that special problems posed by these
limitations have been properly considered and that proper engineering to
overcome these problems has been done and that such engineering is to be
provided by the subdivider. Such engineering plans shall be reviewed by the
village engineer and his report shall be a part of the plan commission record
prior to approval of the final plat.
Land which cannot be developed as indicated above shall not be developed but
shall remain as dedicated open space. Natural features such as trees, brooks,
hilltops and existing ground slopes shall be preserved whenever possible. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-2: STREET LAYOUT AND DESIGN:
   A.   Layout And Design:
      1.   New and proposed street arrangements within a subdivision shall
provide for the continuation of all existing streets into the area proposed to
be subdivided, unless topographical or other conditions make continuance or
conformance to existing streets impractical.
      2.   New and proposed street arrangements within a subdivision shall
allow for the future continuation of said streets into adjacent tracts
according to topographic conditions of said adjacent tracts and/or according to
the consideration of future traffic circulation.
      3.   Where a tract is subdivided into parcels larger than ordinary
building lots, such parcels shall be arranged to allow the opening of future
streets and further resubdivision in a logical and orderly manner.
      4.   All required streets shall conform to the table of minimum standards
for street design and the materials and specifications on file with the village
clerk.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   C.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where:
      1.   A dedicated half street exists adjacent to the parcel being
subdivided. Under this condition, the other half shall be platted and improved
according to the standards herein.
      2.   The plan commission and village board determine that it will be
practicable to require the dedication of a right of way on land not wholly
owned by the developer. Under this condition, the village may take such action
as is required to secure said right of way and the applicant shall pay such
costs as well as the costs of the required improvements.
   D.   Cul-De-Sac Streets:
      1.   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be one thousand feet
(1,000') measured along the centerline from the intersection at origin through
center of circle to end of right of way.
      2.   Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with
a minimum diameter of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from property line
to property line.
      3.   The minimum cul-de-sac right of way width shall be sixty six feet
(66') and the minimum pavement width shall be twenty four feet (24').
      4.   The use of cul-de-sac streets shall be prohibited in multi- family,
business or industrial districts.
   E.   Access To Primary Street: The following standards are established for
the purpose of providing protection for individual properties and to provide
for traffic safety and the efficient use of the primary street for its intended
function of accommodating through traffic.
      1.   A marginal access street may be required in commercial or industrial
zones, separated from a primary street by a planting or grass strip having a
minimum width of twenty feet (20') between the pavement of the primary street
and pavement of the marginal access street. Points of access from the frontage
road to the primary street shall be spaced at a minimum of one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320').
      2.   In residential areas, access to primary streets shall be provided by
one of the following means:
         a.   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the primary street and
front onto a local street; no access to individual lots shall be provided from
the primary street, and a landscaped screening, as approved by the plan
commission, shall be provided in a strip of land at least twelve feet (12')
wide along the rear property lines of such lots.
         b.   A marginal access street, separated from the primary street by a
planting or grass strip having a minimum width of twenty five feet (25')
between the pavement of the primary street and the pavement of the marginal
access street. Points of access from the frontage road to the primary street
shall be spaced at a minimum of one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320').
   F.   Intersections: It must be evidenced that all street intersections and
confluences encourage safe traffic flow.
      1.   The intersection of more than two (2) streets at one point shall be
avoided except where otherwise impractical to secure a proper street system.
      2.   Streets shall intersect one another at an angle as near to the right
angle as possible and in no event shall such intersection be at an angle of
less than sixty degrees (60°).
      3.   Where street intersections are right angle intersections, such
intersections shall be rounded with a minimum radius of twenty feet (20') for
minor streets, twenty five feet (25') for other streets, as measured from the
back of the curbs. If an intersection occurs other than at a right angle, it
shall be rounded with a curve of a radius acceptable to the plan commission.
      4.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be prohibited.
      5.   When connecting streets deflect from each other at any point by more
than thirty degrees (30°), they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'),
and of such greater radii as the plan commission shall determine for special
cases.
   G.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Roads: Where a subdivision borders
an existing narrow road or when the official map and/or official plan or zoning
setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that
would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall
be required to improve and dedicate at his expense such areas for widening or
realignment according to the standards required by these regulations.
   H.   Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the plan commission, shall be constructed at full expense of the applicant
without reimbursement from the village. The sharing expense for construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the plan
commission, will be fixed by special agreement between the village and the
applicant.
   I.   Materials And Specifications: Standards and specifications for public
streets are on file with the village clerk.
   TABLE OF MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN
 
                                                                     Minimum
                                                Minimum    Minimum   Length Of
Street         ROW     Pavement Maximum Minimum Radius Of  Length Of Tangents
Classification Width 2 Width3   Grade   Grade4  Horizontal Vertical  Between
                                                Curves     Curves    Reverse
                                                                     Curves
Primary        80-120' 48'      5%             500'       300'a     200'
(major)
Secondary      66'     24'      5%             300'       200'a     100'
(collector)
Minor (local)  66'     24'      7%             200'       150'b     ----
Marginal
access         60'     24'      7%                                ----
(frontage)
In commercial
and industrial 80-120' 37'+     5%             500'       300'a     200'
districts
 
      1.   Where streets adjoin areas zoned for commercial business or
industrial use, or where a petition for a change in zoning or in the official
plan is contemplated to permit commercial, business, or industrial in adjoining
areas, the above standards shall be increased by the amount necessary to
provide for the free flow of through traffic without interference from parked
vehicles and to provide for safe parking space for such commercial, business,
or industrial uses. This table does not constitute maximum standards which may
be required under site specific development conditions.
      2.   Right of way widths in excess of these standards shall be required
whenever, due to topography, additional width is necessary in order to provide
adequate earth slopes.
      3.   As measured from back of curb to back of curb, or edge of pavement.
         a.   But not less than 50 feet for each 1 percent algebraic difference
of grade.
         b.   But not less than 40 feet for each 1 percent algebraic difference
of grade.
Sight distance plans shall be submitted for critical intersections and other
points as determined by the village engineer.
      4.   The minimum grade of all streets shall be five-tenths of one percent
with curb and gutter, four-tenths of one percent with grass waterways (curb and
swale). All surface drainage ditches shall have a minimum slope of five-tenths
of one percent.
(Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys shall be permitted in residential districts. Such alleys shall
have a right of way of not less than eighteen feet (18') in width and shall
have full access to streets at each end.
   B.   In commercial, business and industrial districts, alleys shall be
permitted only where necessary to assure adequate off loading and unloading.
Such alleys shall have a right of way of not less than twenty four feet (24')
in width and shall have full access to streets at each end. (Ord. 610, 4-9-
2001)
10-3-4: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the types of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions.
      3.   Needs of convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
   B.   In residential areas, all blocks shall be not more than one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') in length and shall be of sufficient width to
provide two (2) tiers of lots, except that one tier of lots may back onto a
limited access highway, major street, secondary street, or railroad right of
way; provided, that at least a twelve foot (12') landscaped planting, as
approved by the plan commission, is situated on a no access reservation along
the rear property lines of such block.
   C.   Blocks intended for commercial, business or industrial use shall be
designed for such use and the plat shall show adequate off street areas for
parking, loading docks and other facilities that may be required to accommodate
motor vehicles.
   D.   In blocks of eight hundred feet (800') or more in length, a public
crosswalk for pedestrian travel, at least ten feet (10') wide, may be required
by the plan commission where deemed essential to provide circulation or access
to schools, parks, shopping centers and other community facilities. (Ord. 610,
4-9-2001)
10-3-5: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Regular Lots:
      1.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated. Due regard shall be shown for all natural features, such
as trees, watercourses, historic and scenic sites and similar conditions which,
if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the proposed development.
      2.   Lot width and area shall conform to or exceed the requirements as
set forth in the zoning ordinance of the village or that of the appropriate
county in the areas beyond the village limits.
      3.   Each lot shall have its full frontage abutting a publicly dedicated
street.
      4.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
the street line.
      5.   Additional building setbacks may be required in the case of corner
lots to assure the proper development of intersection design and traffic
safety. Driveway locations on corner lots may be required to be shown on the
final plat and the location shown shall appear as a covenant running with that
lot.
      6.   In order to provide an adequate building site, additional lot width
and depth shall be required when more than ten percent (10%) of the minimum lot
area includes land within a drainageway, channel or stream or when less than
eighty percent (80%) of the minimum lot area is at least three feet (3') above
the highest ground water level as estimated from soil boring test data.
      7.   Double frontage lots are forbidden except where lots back upon a
limited access highway, a major street, a secondary street or a railroad right
of way. Double frontage lots shall not have vehicular access through such lots.
      8.   Lots proposed in heavy stands of mature timber shall be a minimum of
two (2) acres in order to prevent excessive destruction of the timber during
construction of residences, driveways and septic fields.
   B.   Hillside Regulations: A "hillside lot" as referred to herein is defined
as one with an average slope of more than fifteen percent (15%). The plan
commission shall determine which lots are to comply with the regulations
contained herein and said lots shall be so designated on the final plat.
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: No minimum size is established, but the lot shall
be of adequate size to comply with all regulations contained herein.
      2.   Erosion Control: Erosion controls such as retaining walls, cribbing
or vegetative cover may be required by the plan commission. When required by
the plan commission, plans must be submitted to the village engineer for
approval before starting on the plat as a covenant which will run with the
land.
      3.   Sewage Disposal: No subsurface sanitary waste disposal system may be
constructed on a hillside lot. Exceptions will only be made based on detailed
studies provided by the subdivider and approved by the plan commission.
      4.   Cuts And Fills: Major cuts, excavation, grading and filling will not
be permitted if it results in a slope of two and one- half to one (2.5:1) or
greater along adjacent lot lines except where adequate provision is made to
prevent slides and erosion. Where cuts or fills are required to provide a
building site, engineering data must be presented to show existing and proposed
topography, location of the building site and an analysis of the fill material
to be used.
      5.   Driveways: The maximum grade on driveways shall not exceed twelve
percent (12%). Each drive shall provide sufficient space and distance to turn
around before entering the street.
   C.   Commercial, Industrial, Business Lots: The lot width, area and depth
shall be as recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village
board. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Continuity: Easements shall be designed to provide continuity
throughout the entire subdivision.
   B.   Public Utility Easements: Utility distribution or transmission
installations serving the subdivision shall be located in easements and so
designated on the subdivision plat of record. Such easements shall be located
along the rear lot lines, side lot lines or front lot line. They shall occupy
not less than ten feet (10'), of which five feet (5') may be shown on each of
two (2) adjacent lots. Utility easements shall be indicated as such on the
final plat and shall not be used for drainage purposes except that they may be
graded as a drainage swale.
All utilities shall be underground and contained within easements or dedicated
rights of way. When utilities are within a right of way, the utility shall not
be located beneath a paved area other than sidewalks.
   C.   Village Utility Easements: Whenever it is necessary to install water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or other underground utilities to be
maintained by the village in areas other than public rights of way, easements
shall be established and so designated. Easements may not be less than ten feet
(10') wide, five feet (5') of which may be shown on each of two (2) adjacent
lots.
Whenever the village utilities and the public utilities follow a common route,
they may be in a common easement terming a utility easement. Said easements
shall be of adequate width for the purpose intended but in no case shall they
be less than fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Drainage Easements: Where a subdivision is transversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage
easement or right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourse, and further width as will be necessary for the purpose of
adequately maintaining or improving the watercourse. Said easements shall not
be used for any other purposes except that utilities may cross this easement,
provided that the crossing does not alter the intended use of the easement.
(Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-7: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Requirements: Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street
for all commercial lots. Sidewalks may be required for industrial lots and
elsewhere if considered necessary by the plan commission for public safety. All
sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete unless another
material is required by the village engineer.
   B.   Location: Unless otherwise directed by the village engineer, sidewalks
shall be located within the dedicated right of way and shall be laid one foot
(1') from the property line of abutting lots and along such line as extended at
intersections.
   C.   Dimensions: Sidewalks in residential subdivisions shall be not less
than four feet (4') in width, not less than four inches (4") in thickness, and
not less than six inches (6") in thickness where they intersect a driveway.
Sidewalks for commercial and industrial lots shall be not less than five feet
(5') in width and not less than five inches (5") in thickness.
   D.   Compliance: Sidewalks shall comply with the requirements of the
subdivision standards on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-8: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Grass Seeding Or Sod: All unpaved areas within street rights of way
shall be seeded or sodded with a Kentucky bluegrass mixture or with such other
grass mixture as approved by the village engineer. Before the release of the
maintenance bond can be recommended by the village engineer, all unpaved areas
between the edge of the road pavement and the right of way line must have an
adequate mat of grass.
   B.   Trees: Existing trees should be preserved and protected during
construction.
   C.   Screen Planting: Protective screen planting may be required to secure a
reasonable effective physical barrier between residential properties and
adjoining uses to minimize adverse conditions of sight and sound. The screen
planting plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect and shall meet the
approval of the plan commission. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-9: PATHWAYS:
The plan commission may require the provision of a pathway system at
appropriate locations upon consideration of the safety of pedestrian and
bicycle access to public areas. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-10: STREET LIGHTING:
Street lighting shall comply with the requirements of the subdivision standards
on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-11: STREET SIGNS AND GUARDRAILS:
Street signs and guardrails shall comply with the requirements of the
subdivision standards on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-12: STORM WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Storm water drainage including storm water detention facilities shall
comply with the requirements of the subdivision standards on file with the
village clerk.
   B.   As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a
final plat of a planned unit of development, each subdivider shall be required
to construct storm water detention facilities and dedicate land on which those
facilities are located including access; or cash contribution in lieu of the
actual construction of the storm water detention facilities (including land
dedication); or a combination of both, at the option of the village in
accordance with the following criteria and formula.
   C.   Storm water detention facilities shall be designed in accordance with
the requirements of the subdivision standards on file with the village clerk.
Where the development is small and the resulting storm water detention
facilities would be too small to be practical and where storm water detention
facilities could be deleted or deferred without causing adverse impacts, the
village, at its option, may require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash
contribution in lieu of constructing the storm water detention facilities and
dedicating land for those facilities. The cash contribution in lieu of storm
water detention facilities shall be held by the village to be used for storm
water and drainage facilities and improvements.
The amount of the cash contribution in lieu of construction of storm water
detention facilities shall be computed as follows:
      1.   The volume of the storm water detention pond which would be required
shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements of the subdivision
standards on file with the village clerk.
      2.   The amount of cash contribution shall be fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) per acre-foot of storm water detention volume which would have
been required. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-13: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
Sanitary sewer system improvements, where applicable shall comply with the
requirements of the subdivision standards on file with the village clerk. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-3-14: WATER SYSTEM:
Water system improvements shall comply with the requirements of the subdivision
standards on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
ARTICLE A. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Engineering And Administrative Procedures
10-3A-2: Streets
10-3A-3: Sidewalks
10-3A-4: Street Lighting
10-3A-5: Street Signs, Guardrails And Landscaping
10-3A-6: Storm Water Drainage
10-3A-7: Sanitary Sewer Systems
10-3A-8: Water Systems
10-3A-1: ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
A major share of what eventually becomes publicly owned improvements are
designed and constructed by private interests. This article establishes
processing requirements and a uniform design criteria for ensuring that such
improvements will result in construction meeting the standards of the village.
Where improvement plans and specifications are submitted as a part of a plat of
subdivision, the processing requirements shall be as contained in the
subdivision regulations of the village. In any case, the design and
construction of street improvements, streetlights, street signs, storm water
drainage, sanitary sewer system and water system shall be in accordance with
the design regulations contained in this article. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-2: STREETS:
Minimum construction requirements for streets shall be as follows:
   A.   General References: It is intended that all public streets shall be
constructed in accordance, as far as applicable, with the most recently adopted
edition of the state of Illinois, department of transportation, "Standard
Specification For Road And Bridge Construction", including current highway
standards, special provisions and supplemental specifications as issued by said
department. These shall be referred to as the "state standard specifications"
hereinafter.
   B.   Subgrade: The subgrade of all public streets shall be prepared in
accordance with section 212 of the state standard specifications. It is
required that the soil composing the subgrade have a minimum soil support value
of 3.0 as determined by the IBR (Illinois bearing ratio) test procedures used
by the Illinois department of transportation. When, in the opinion of the
village engineer, evaluation of the suitability of the subgrade to support the
proposed pavement is warranted, a competent soils engineer approved by the
village and retained by the developer at his expense shall perform the
necessary soil tests to ensure that a stable subgrade as specified is being
provided.
   C.   Design Of Pavement, Procedure: The required thickness of the pavement
shall be determined in accordance with the current Illinois department of
transportation "Manual Of Instruction For The Structural Design Of Bituminous
Pavements Of Projects Involving MFT, FAS, FUS And TOPICS Funds" or Illinois
department of transportation design manual section 7.
The anticipated traffic volumes, the composition of the traffic, and the
subgrade support strength provided by the roadbed soils shall be considered in
the design of the pavement. This information is subject to the review and
approval of the village.
      1.   Minimum Design Criteria: Not less than the minimum requirements
listed below shall be permitted in the design of streets.
         a.   No street shall be designed for an average daily traffic count of
less than two hundred (200).
         b.   The percentage of multiple unit vehicles shall be five percent
(5%).
         c.   The percentage of single unit vehicles shall be thirty five
percent (35%) for class IV streets and twenty five percent (25%) for class III
streets.
         d.   Soil support values for the subgrade shall be based upon
laboratory tests conducted on soil samples collected within thirty feet (30')
of the proposed centerline of pavement and at intervals along the centerline
not exceeding five hundred feet (500').
         e.   Traffic count and soil support values shall be submitted to the
village engineer for approval prior to preparing the pavement design.
         f.   The design period shall be twenty (20) years.
         g.   Gravel is not acceptable for an aggregate base course.
         h.   Street shall be surfaced with a class B bituminous binder having
a minimum thickness of one and one-half inches (11/2") and a class B bituminous
wearing surface having a minimum thickness of one and one-half inches (11/2").
         i.   Minimum thickness of the base course shall be:
      Aggregate   8 inches
      Pozzalanic   7 inches
      Bituminous stabilized   6 inches
         j.   Base course shall be supplemented with a subbase course when
necessary to compensate for poor subgrade soil conditions.
         k.   All materials shall be certified by the supplier to meet the
standard specifications for road and bridge construction published by the
Illinois department of transportation.
         l.   No base course material shall be placed before the subgrade has
been inspected and approved for grade and compaction by the village engineer.
Unsatisfactory subgrade shall be excavated and replaced with approved subbase
material.
         m.   After approval of the subbase and subgrade, no vehicular
construction equipment traffic, except for road construction equipment, shall
be permitted on the streets before the base course and bituminous binder course
have been completed.
         n.   The bituminous wearing surface course shall be completed within
one year after installation of the binder course or when approximately sixty
percent (60%) of the construction traffic tributary to the street due to
housing or building construction has been completed.
         o.   The village reserves the right to request curb and gutter or
paved ditches. Curb and gutter or paved ditches shall be used when slopes
exceed seven percent (7%), or in other areas where flowing water might initiate
drainage failure, or in areas where ground water conditions will tend to
promote extended periods of flow. Curb and gutter shall be state of Illinois
type B (mountable) in residential areas, and shall be state of Illinois type B
6.12 barrier type in commercial and industrial areas. Paved ditches shall be
state of Illinois standard type A. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-3: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   All sidewalks shall be air entrained Portland cement concrete and a
minimum of six (6) bag mix, five inches (5") thick over three inches (3") of
grade CA 16 pea gravel or compacted CA6 coarse aggregate, Illinois standard
specifications.
   B.   Sidewalks shall be elevated not less than one-fourth inch per foot (1/
4"/1') from the edge of street to the edge of sidewalk.
   C.   Sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') off the property line on both
sides of the street, and shall be not less than four feet (4') in width.
   D.   Sidewalks shall comply with the requirements of the subdivision
standards on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-4: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   Residential street lighting facilities shall be provided in
subdivisions at all street intersections and at closer intervals if the gross
density of the subdivision is three (3) dwelling units per acre or more.
   B.   The subdivider shall bear all the necessary expense and responsibility
of providing all street lighting materials per the current existing
specifications or requirements of the Commonwealth Edison Company and/or
village.
   C.   The subdivider shall arrange for and pay all installation costs
required by the Commonwealth Edison Company for the erection of the required
streetlights.
   D.   The subdivider shall bear all expense and responsibility for any street
lighting alteration or corrections needed to ensure the maintenance acceptance
agreement by Commonwealth Edison Company. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-5: STREET SIGNS, GUARDRAILS AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Street signs of the type approved by the village shall be installed on
two (2) diagonal corners of each intersection and shall indicate the street
names as shown on the final plat.
   B.   Wooden timber guardrails shall be placed along the shoulder of any
street where street construction has resulted in an embankment greater than six
feet (6').
   C.   All unpaved street rights of way shall be seeded or sodded. Provisions
shall be made to assure the growth of all landscaping. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-6: STORM WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Surface water drainage improvements consisting of storm sewers and/or
detention facilities shall be designed and constructed to adequately drain the
area being developed and also all of such other areas which naturally drain
through the area being developed.
   B.   If the surface water drainage will be changed by the construction of
the subdivision, adequate provision shall be made for collection and diversion
of such surface waters into public areas or drains which the subdivider has a
right to use, and such surface waters shall not be deposited on the property of
adjoining landowners.
   C.   Design and planning of surface water drainage facilities shall be
performed by or under the supervision of a professional engineer, registered in
the state of Illinois. Basic design methods and computations shall be as
outlined in an ASCE manual or reports on engineering practice no. 27, WPCF
Manual No. 9, "Design And Construction Of Sanitary And Storm Sewers". Design
computations conforming to the above manual or other methods subject to the
approval of the village shall be submitted to demonstrate that the requirements
herein are met.
   D.   Unless engineering evidence is presented to the village warranting
exceptions, a combination of facilities providing for storage and controlled
release of storm water, for all commercial or industrial developments exceeding
ten (10) acres in area and for all residential developments exceeding ten (10)
acres, shall be provided. The release rate of storm water from all developments
requiring detention shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate from the area
in its natural, undeveloped state.
   E.   Storm water detention facilities shall be designed in accordance with
the "Information Pamphlet: Design Capacity Of Storm Water Detention Reservoirs"
as presented by the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago; and
"Information Pamphlet: Detailed Steps For Determining Allowable Release Rate
And Required Flood Storage" as presented by the Metropolitan Sanitary District
of Greater Chicago.
   F.   In addition to requirements for detention, drainage facilities will be
designed and constructed to meet the following criteria:
      1.   All improvements will be designed to handle runoff from a storm
having a 5-year frequency (not to be exceeded more than 20 times in 100 years).
Storm water conduit drains that discharge to open channels shall terminate with
suitable outlet structures to control soil erosion and to prevent progressive
failure of the conduit in an upstream direction.
      2.   Inlets, catch basins, where curb and gutter is required, shall be
spaced at no greater distance than five hundred feet (500') apart and shall be
so located that in no case will water be required to flow across a street, or
be retained outside the center ten feet (10') of the drainage utility easement.
They shall be designed to receive the runoff from a storm of 5-year frequency
for residential areas and 10-year frequency in highly developed commercial and
industrial areas.
      3.   Storm sewer slopes shall be such that a minimum velocity of two and
one-half feet (21/2') per second is maintained when the pipe is flowing full
without surcharge. In cases where it is impractical to obtain the above minimum
velocity, modification shall be subject to approval by the village engineer.
      4.   Manholes with a minimum diameter of four feet (4') with cast iron
frames and grates, approved by the village, shall be installed at any abrupt
change in direction, size or grade of the sewer and at all other locations
necessary to limit the distance between manholes to five hundred feet (500'). A
greater distance will be allowed if it makes the manhole more accessible. This
greater distance is subject to the approval of the village. All sewers shall
have straight barrels.
      5.   Joints for storm sewer conduit may be mortar joints or bituminous
joints complying with paragraph 30.3.02 B or paragraph 303.02 C respectively,
as specified in the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", second edition, dated September 1976, or the latest
revision thereof.
      6.   Capacity of inlets, catch basins and storm sewers shall be not less
than 1.40 cubic feet per second per acre. (Rational formula for 5-year
frequency, 20 minute inlet time and 40 percent runoff coefficient.)
      7.   Provisions shall be made in the design of streets, easements and
drainage facilities so that storm water equal to 1.80 cubic feet per second
(equivalent to 25-year frequency, 20 minute inlet time and 40 percent runoff
coefficient) per acre can be carried by the drainage system and by overland
flow in streets and/or easements to a natural outlet without flooding streets
above the curb line. If such provision is not made, the exception shall be
noted by the professional engineer responsible for design.
      8.   It will be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide grade
control for rear lot drainage to each homeowner, as the homes are constructed.
It will be the homeowner's responsibility to maintain the drainage course and
to keep it free from features that restrict natural drainage.
      9.   Open channel swales will be considered in lieu of storm sewers
provided that the maximum depth of water flow does not exceed eighteen inches
(18") and velocity does not exceed two feet (2') per second, under all storm
conditions up to 100-year frequency. Swales shall have a minimum side slope of
three feet horizontal to one foot vertical (3':1'), shall include a flat bottom
not less than two feet (2') wide. The flow line and two feet (2') up the side
slope of all swales shall be sodded.
      10.   Culverts shall be state of Illinois standard CMP and shall be sized
to carry not less than a storm of 5-year frequency. Minimum culvert size shall
be twelve inches (12"). Culverts shall be installed at all driveways,
intersections and crossroads as required to carry natural drainage.
      11.   The combination of storm sewers, swales and culverts shall be
designed to convey the 100-year storm without inundating, damaging or flooding
private or public property. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-7: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Where improvements and extensions to the sanitary sewage collection
system are required in order to serve the needs of a development, the developer
shall bear all costs in the sewer system installation.
   B.   Prior to proceeding with construction, the developer shall prepare and
submit plans, profiles and specifications to all federal, state, county,
township and other governmental agencies as required by law. Permits or
approvals shall be received from all appropriate agencies. The contractor shall
also submit plans and specifications to the village and shall obtain written
approval from the village board before proceeding with construction. The
following requirements shall be met:
      1.   Plans and specifications submitted shall bear the seal of a current
registered professional engineer.
      2.   Sewers shall be not less than eight inches (8") in diameter.
      3.   Manholes shall be set at each intersection and at intervals not to
exceed four hundred feet (400') (whichever results in closer spacing).
      4.   Curved sewers shall not be allowed.
      5.   Sewers shall be televised and shall reveal a straight, unbroken,
tight, flawless barrel. Sewers shall be lamped for straight barrel, the actual
lamp shall be visible, not the reflection. Sewers shall be tested by
infiltration, exfiltration or air testing in accordance with standard
procedures. Manholes shall be watertight.
      6.   Manholes shall be poured monolithic or shall be precast concrete
rings, sealed watertight.
      7.   Sewer pipe shall be vitrified clay ASTM C-700. Concrete pipe ASTM C-
14 or C-76 or cement asbestos ASTM C-428. Due care in pipe selection shall be
given through design based upon laying conditions, depth of cover and soil
type.
      8.   Sewers shall be buried such that finished grade will provide not
less than eight feet (8') of cover and not greater than sixteen feet (16') of
cover, except where specifically allowed by the village.
      9.   Sewage collection systems shall be designed, installed and tested in
accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Construction
In Illinois".
      10.   When in any subdivision now within the village or within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the village limits, which normally would require an
eight inch (8") size sewer, but which for the purpose of complying with the
plan of development of the village's sewage collection not only to the
particular subdivision but also to subdivisions which in the future may become
a part of the village and where the village engineer has determined that sewers
of a larger diameter than eight inches (8") and the size thereof shall be
installed, then the village engineer shall inform the subdividers, builders and
developers of the subdivision by a written notice of that fact and require them
to install such oversized sewers and at the same time, in said notice, inform
them of the size to be installed. Upon being so notified as provided for
herein, no subdivider, builder or developer shall install any sewer in such
subdivision of any size other than that specified to him by the aforesaid
notice.
   C.   At such time as the installation of said oversized sewer pipe shall
have been completed in accordance with the plans and specifications submitted
to the village for such installation, and also in accordance with the notice
specified in this section, and all such installations shall have been inspected
and approved by the village as provided for by the ordinances of the village,
then the village will pay any such subdivider, builder or developer who has
installed oversized sewer pipe, as above provided, the difference of the cost
at current prices as of the time of said installation between the eight inch
(8") pipe which was originally planned to be used and the cost of the oversized
sewer pipe which the village directed to be used. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-3A-8: WATER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Where improvements and extensions to the water distribution system are
required in order to serve the needs of a development, the developer shall bear
all costs in the water main installation.
   B.   Prior to proceeding with construction, the developer shall prepare and
submit plans and specifications to all federal, state, county, township and
other governmental agencies as required by law. Permits or approvals shall be
received from all appropriate agencies. The contractor shall also submit plans
and specifications to the village and shall obtain written approval from the
village board before proceeding with construction. The following requirements
shall be met:
      1.   Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications submitted shall
bear the seal of a current registered professional engineer.
      2.   Water Main Size: Water mains shall be not less than eight inches
(8") in diameter. Water mains shall be of sufficient size to furnish water in
quantity and pressure as indicated by the Insurance Services of Illinois, or
the Factory Mutual Insurance Company provided velocities do not exceed eight
feet (8') per second during estimated fire demand plus domestic demand.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be set at each intersection and
at intervals not to exceed three hundred feet (300') (whichever results in
closer spacing).
Fire hydrants as approved by the village engineer shall be installed throughout
the entire water system so that there is a hydrant located at all street
intersections and intermediate hydrants evenly spaced so the interval between
hydrants is not more than three hundred feet (300').
All fire hydrants shall be Clow, Eddy, Traverse City, having a six inch (6")
barrel and shall be provided with two and one-half inch (21/2") hose
connections and one 41/2-inch steamer connection and shall be equipped with
break flange and individual auxiliary valve. The threads on the hose connection
shall be national standard thread. Hydrants shall be set plumb with the center
of the steamer connection set eighteen inches (18") above the finish grade.
All hydrants shall be individually flow tested and meet the capacity indicated
by the following table. Hydrants shall be painted to provide a high level of
daytime visibility and nighttime reflectivity with the hydrant top and nozzle
caps color coded in accordance with the following table:
 
Class Flow Capacity        Color Of Tops And Nozzle Caps
A     1,000 gpm or greater Green
B     500 – 1,000 gpm    Orange
C     Less than 500 gpm    Red
 
      4.   Water Main Material: All water mains shall be ductile iron pipe,
suitable for pressures of at least one hundred fifty (150) psi operating
pressure. Ductile iron pipe shall be AWWA approved, thickness class 51 or
better.
All piping and fittings shall be capable of withstanding an internal working
pressure of one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch for forty five (45)
minutes. Pipes shall be designed for a cover of five and one-half feet (51/2')
below finish grade. All pipes shall have a modified cement mortar lining and
shall conform to the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" (most recent edition).
Alternative materials such as PVC pipe will be considered on a case by case
basis. If approved, PVC pipe shall be AWWA approved and shall be Certainee
"Vinyl Iron", Johns Manville "Blue Brute" or approved equal.
When located within the service area of a public water supply system, water
distribution mains of size listed below shall be installed:
         a.   Single-family residential areas: Eight inch (8") diameter.
         b.   Other than single-family residential developments: Minimum eight
inch (8") diameter water main.
         c.   The above are minimum considerations for water main sizing. This
does not preclude the developer from providing adequate water supplies as will
be necessary under the computations for adequate domestic and industrial and
fire protection purposes, and if such designs require larger size mains, it
shall be the developer's responsibility to provide these mains.
         d.   Gridiron.
            (1)   Each eight inch (8") diameter water main shall be looped at a
distance not to exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
            (2)   Ten inch (10") diameter water mains shall be looped at
distances not to exceed one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800').
            (3)   Twelve inch (12") and larger water mains shall be looped at
distance not to exceed three thousand feet (3,000') by twelve inch (12") or
larger mains.
      5.   Oversized Water Mains: When in any subdivision, which normally would
require an eight inch (8") size water main, but which for the purpose of
complying with the plan of development of the village's water system to provide
an adequate water supply, not only to the particular subdivision but also to
subdivisions which in the future may become a part of the village, and where
the village engineer and superintendent have determined that water mains of a
larger diameter than eight inches (8") and the size thereof shall be installed,
then the village engineer or superintendent shall inform the subdividers,
builders and developers of the subdivision by a written notice of that fact and
require them to install such oversized water mains and at the same time in said
notice inform them of the size to be installed.
Upon being so notified as provided for in this subsection, no subdivider,
builder or developer shall install any water main in such subdivision of any
size other than that specified to him by the aforesaid notice.
At such time as the installation of said oversized water main pipe shall have
been completed in accordance with the plans and specifications submitted to the
village for such installation, and also in accordance with the notice specified
in this section, and all such installation shall have been inspected and
approved by the village as provided for by the ordinances of the village, then
the village will pay any such subdivider, builder or developer who has
installed oversized water main pipe, as above provided, the difference of the
cost at current prices as of the time of said installation between the eight
inch (8") pipe which was originally planned to be used and the cost of the
oversized pipe which the village directed to be used, said payment to be made
at such time as may be designated by a properly executed recapture agreement.
All water main extensions shall be designed, installed and tested in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Valves: All valves shall be AWWA approved gate valves and shall be
located in valve boxes and covers.
Valves shall be installed at eight hundred feet (800') intervals and the system
shall be designed and valves installed so that with any one section shut down
the rest of the system will maintain an adequate water supply.
Main water line gate valve boxes, shutoff boxes and service boxes are to be
located in a lawn area of the right of way, where possible, and installed at
final finished lawn grade. Main gate valves installed in streets, roadways,
driveways or sidewalks are to be installed in a standard forty eight inch (48")
precast manhole. All valves and shutoff devices shall be protected from frost.
      7.   Customer Services: Customer water service lines shall be constructed
to connect with the utility service mains located within any street or
thoroughfare to service each adjoining lot, tract or building site. Such
service lines shall extend from the main to a point one foot (1') inside the
right of way lines. All such customer service lines shall be located at the
approximate centerline of each lot. Customer services shall not be less than
three-fourths inch (3/4") type K copper and shall include a corporation stop
and curb valve, box and cover. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 4
DEDICATION OF PUBLIC AREAS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Dedication Of Lands For School Sites, Parks And Other Public Areas
10-4-2: Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication
10-4-3: Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreation Land Dedication
10-4-4: Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites
10-4-5: Dwelling Unit Population Formula
10-4-6: Reservation Of Additional Land
10-4-7: Combining With Adjoining Developments
10-4-8: Topography And Grading
10-4-9: Improved Sites
10-4-10: Title To Sites
10-4-11: Dedication Or Contribution As A Condition Of Annexation
10-4-12: Cash Contribution For Library Purposes
10-4-1: DEDICATION OF LANDS FOR SCHOOL SITES, PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a final plat
of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer shall be required
to dedicate land for school sites and park and recreational purposes, to serve
the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development; or cash
contributions in lieu of actual land dedication; or a combination of both, at
the option of the village in accordance with the following criteria and
formula. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirements And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to
be generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear directly
upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land
dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each such school classification over the 2)
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the 3) said
minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each school
classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land
deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased children in each such school classification.
   B.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: School classifications
and size of school sites within the village shall be determined in accordance
with the following criteria:
School Classification By Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
Grades                   For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
                         Classification             Of Such Classification
School Classification By Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
Grades                   For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
                         Classification             Of Such Classification
Elementary schools
Grades kindergarten      600 students               11 acres
through 5
Junior high schools
Grades 6 through 8       900 students               22 acres
High schools
Grades 9 through 12      2,300 students             48 acres
 
   C.   Location: The official plan of the village and the standards of the
affected school district shall be used as guidelines in locating sites. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-3: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required dedication.
The total requirement shall be six (6.0) acres of land per one thousand (1,000)
of the ultimate population in accordance with the following standards by types
of recreation and park areas:
Types Of Recreation Area Size Range (Minimum) Minimum Acres Per 1,000
                                              Population
Types Of Recreation Area       Size Range (Minimum) Minimum Acres Per 1,000
                                                    Population
                                                   
Play lot                       8,000 square feet    Not applicable
                                                   
Neighborhood park              3.5 acres            1.0
                                                   
School - park (neighborhood    6 acres              1.5
playground)
                                                   
Communitywide recreation       12 acres             1.5
park
                                                   
District - township recreation 15 acres             2.0
park
                                                  Total: 6.0 acres of and per
                                                    1,000 people
 
   B.   Location: The official plan of the village and any plans and standards
adopted by the affected park district shall be used as guidelines for locating
sites. A park site adjoining all elementary school sites of not less than five
(5) acres shall be considered a requirement. A central location which will
serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In large developments,
these sites can be located throughout the development according to
establishment standards for park distances.
   C.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When subdividers
or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities,
it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational
services.
Depending on the size of the developments, a portion of the park and recreation
area in subdivisions or planned unit developments may, at the option of the
village board, be provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of
dedicated "public" open space. The extent of sale shall be determined by the
village board, based upon the needs of the projected residents and in
conformance to the total park and recreational land for the general area.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will imply
a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village and before any
credit is given for private recreational areas, the subdivider or developer
must guarantee that these private recreational areas will be permanently
maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents.
Private swimming clubs are included in this provision. When an adjustment for
private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the
total park land dedication that would have been required from the subdivision
or planned unit development and then subtract the credit to be given. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-4: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING A CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK AND SCHOOL SITES:
Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical, or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication
required. The cash contribution shall be held by the village to be used solely
for the acquisition of park and recreational land as hereinbefore classified to
serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or
developments, or the improvement of other existing local parks and recreational
land which already serves such need. The cash contributions in lieu of school
sites shall be collected by the village and forwarded semiannually (January 1
and July 1) to the school district to be used solely for the use in the
acquisition of land for a school site to serve immediate or future needs of
children from that subdivision or development, or for the improvement to any
existing school site which already serves such needs, but not for the
construction of any school buildings or additions thereto.
   A.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation and school sites. It has been determined that the present "fair
market value" of such improved land in and surrounding the village is thirty
nine thousand dollars ($39,000.00) per acre and such figure shall be used in
making any calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer files a
written objection thereto. In the event of any such objection, the developer
shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair market value" of such improved land
in the area of his development or other evidence thereof and final
determination of said "fair market value" per acre of such improved land shall
be made by the village board based upon such information submitted by the
subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the
village board by the park district, school district or others.
   B.   Criteria For Requiring The Dedication And A Fee: There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of
land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the
subdivision falling within the park or school location shall be dedicated as a
site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required
for any additional land that would have to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord.
610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-5: DWELLING UNIT POPULATION FORMULA:
The following table of population density is generally indicative of current
and short range projected trends in family size for new construction and shall
be used in calculating the required land or cash contributions:
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
   Children Per Unit
Type Preschool 0–4 Elementary Grades K–5 5–10 Junior High Grades 6–8 11–13 Total Grades K–8 5–13 High School Grades 9–12 14–17 Adults/ Total/
Of   Years           Years                          Years                            Years                     Years                             Unit    Unit
Unit
Type Of    Preschool 0–4 Elementary Grades K–5 5–10 Junior High Grades 6–8 11–13 Total Grades K–8 5–13 High School Grades 9–12 14–17 Adults/ Total/
Unit       Years           Years                          Years                            Years                     Years                             Unit    Unit
Detached Single-Family
2 bedroom  0.43            0.45                           0.14                             0.59                      0.17                              2.00    3.78
3 bedroom  0.51            0.81                           0.38                             1.19                      0.32                              2.00    4.02
4 bedroom  0.54            0.89                           0.50                             1.39                      0.43                              2.00    4.36
5 bedroom  0.54            0.99                           0.62                             1.61                      0.55                              2.05    4.75
Attached Single-Family (Townhouse, Row House, Quadruplex, Etc.)
1 bedroom  0.170           0.052                          0.013                            0.065                     0.013                             1.75    1.96
2 bedroom  0.710           0.364                          0.026                            0.390                     0.056                             2.00    3.156
3 bedroom  0.760           0.719                          0.214                            0.933                     0.124                             2.00    3.817
4 bedroom  1.000           1.183                          0.461                            1.644                     0.396                             2.00    6.040
Low Density Apartments (To 15/Acre)
Efficiency –             –                            –                              –                       –                               1.00    1.00
1 bedroom  0.17            0.052                          0.028                            0.08                      0.013                             1.70    1.963
2 bedroom  0.43            0.202                          0.108                            0.31                      0.057                             2.00    2.797
3 bedroom  0.51            0.436                          0.234                            0.67                      0.183                             2.00    3.363
High Density Apartments (16 Or More/Acre)
Efficiency –             –                            –                              –                       –                               1.00    1.00
1 bedroom  0.13            0.026                          0.014                            0.04                      0.007                             1.70    1.877
2 bedroom  0.21            0.065                          0.035                            0.10                      0.029                             2.00    2.339
3 bedroom  0.43            0.150                          0.080                            0.23                      0.092                             2.00    2.602
 
In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the table
of estimated ultimate population listed above, he shall submit his own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned unit development and, in that event, final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the village board based upon such demographic information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to
the village board by the school district or others. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment if necessary. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-6: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land or school sites in a particular
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved
for subsequent purchase by the village or other public body designated by the
village, provided that such acquisition is made within one year from the date
of approval of the final plat, or if an agreement between the developer and the
village is recorded outlining specific conditions for the conveyance of such
property. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-7: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a
particular developer. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-8: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from
surrounding land unless approved by the village board. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-9: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage, curb and
gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made
therefor. The sidewalks and trees normally included within the definition of
"improved" sites may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any
such school site and construction of school facilities thereon. (Ord. 610, 4-9-
2001)
10-4-10: TITLE TO SITES:
All sites shall be conveyed to the village, or other public body designated by
the village, either by warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer
shall be responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such sites, and
shall be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of
conveyance, including any agricultural roll back taxes which might be extended
or levied against such sites, for any tax years or periods prior to the time of
conveyance. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-11: DEDICATION OR CONTRIBUTION AS A CONDITION OF ANNEXATION:
The dedications of land or cash contributions as required by this chapter shall
also be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to the village
and provisions therefor shall be incorporated in any preannexation agreement
governing such land. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-4-12: CASH CONTRIBUTION FOR LIBRARY PURPOSES:
In addition to the dedication of lands for school sites, parks and other public
areas as provided in section
10-4-1 of this chapter, and the provisions of section
10-4-4 of this chapter calling for contributions in lieu of park and school
sites, there shall be a cash contribution for library purposes in the amount of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) per subdivided residential lot to be paid by a
subdivider or developer on all lots improved within the village. This
contribution for library purposes shall be collected at the time that all
building permit fees and development fees are collected from the developer or
subdivider and shall be passed along to the Franklin Grove Public Library (or
any legal successor thereto) at the times and in the manner determined
appropriate by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Assurance For The Completion Of Required Improvements
10-5-2: Installation Of Required Improvements
10-5-1: ASSURANCE FOR THE COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Performance Guarantee: No work shall be started on any improvement
until the applicant has posted a guarantee in the amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the estimated costs of the subdivision improvements as
approved by the village engineer, in order to ensure that the work is performed
according to the plans and specifications and according to good engineering and
installation practices. The guarantee shall also be sufficient to secure all
lot improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in these
regulations, and shall be conditional upon the installation of the required
improvements within two (2) years from the date that the final plat is approved
by the board of trustees. The performance guarantee shall comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the village attorney as to
form and manner of execution, and shall be approved by the village board as to
amount and surety and conditions satisfactory to the village board. Such
guarantee shall be secured by either:
      1.   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a federally
insured bank or savings and loan association with resources of at least ten
million dollars ($10,000,000.00) under the provisions of an escrow agreement,
approved in form by the village attorney, in an amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the estimated construction cost as approved by the village
engineer and subject to draw by the village to install subdivision improvements
if they are not installed by the subdivider in accordance to the plan and
specifications and/or according to good engineering practices; or
      2.   A clean, nondeclining, irrevocable letter of credit in such form as
approved by the village attorney, issued by a federally insured bank or savings
and loan association with resources of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00) in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
estimated construction cost as approved by the village engineer. The letter
shall provide that funds be drawn only by the village.
   B.   Reduction Of Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee shall be
reduced only upon recommendation of the village engineer and approval by the
village Board upon application for payout by the subdivider in amounts such
that funds or credit remaining will always equal one hundred percent (100%) of
the value of the uncompleted work, as determined by the village engineer; and
such that not more than ninety percent (90%) of the guarantee amount is
released prior to the acceptance of the improvements by the village in
accordance with section 10-5-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Release Of Performance Guarantee: The village shall not release the
performance guarantee until there has been filed a maintenance guarantee in
accordance with section 10-5-4C of this chapter and not until there has been an
acceptance of improvements by the village in accordance with the provisions of
section 10-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
10-5-2: INSTALLATION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Proposed Subdivision: The developer of a proposed subdivision shall
install or cause to be provided the following facilities in accordance with the
standards set forth in chapters 3 and 4 of this title and other engineering
specifications on file with the village engineer:
      1.   All roadways, private drives, alleys, gutters and street drainage
facilities.
      2.   All sidewalks located within public areas.
      3.   A waterline connection for each lot of the proposed subdivision.
Such water supply lines shall be connected to the village water system at least
at the two (2) most advantageous locations as determined by the village
engineer, taking into account the size of the village water main at such
locations and the expected demands of the proposed subdivision. Dead end water
mains shall be prohibited. Additional standards and specifications are on file
with the village engineer.
      4.   Fire hydrants of the type and quality specified in standards on file
with the village engineer.
      5.   A sanitary sewer line connection for each lot. Such sanitary sewer
line shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system of the village at such
point or points as the village engineer shall determine based upon the location
and size of the village sanitary sewer system in relation to the estimated flow
of the sanitary sewers of the proposed subdivision. Additional standards and
specifications are on file with the village engineer. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 6
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Amendments To Title
10-6-1: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE:
   A.   The village board may from time to time on its own motion, or on
petition, or on recommendation of the plan commission amend, supplement, or
repeal the regulations and provisions of this title.
   B.   Every such proposed amendment or change whether initiated by the
village board or by petition shall be referred to the board of appeals for
report thereon resulting from public hearing as provided in subsection C of
this section.
   C.   The board of appeals, by resolution adopted at a stated meeting, shall
fix the time and place of public hearing on the proposed amendments and cause
notice to be given not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days before the hearing by publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or
more newspapers published in the municipality, or, if no newspapers are
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the municipality. (Ord. 610, 4-9-2001)
APPENDICES
Annexations   A
Streets And Sidewalks   B
Waterworks And Sewerage   C
Annual Appropriations And Tax Levies   D
Miscellaneous Special Ordinances   E
 
APPENDIX A
ANNEXATIONS
This appendix includes village ordinances pertaining to the annexation of
property to the village.
Ord. No.   Description
62   Annexation, 1879.
101   Annexation, 1888.
104   Annexation, 1889.
112   Annexation, 1891.
115   Annexation, 1891.
123   Annexation, 1893.
177   Annexation, 1905.
246   Annexation, R.W. Smith Addition, 1921.
269   Annexation, Canterbury's Addition.
276   Annexation, 1927.
277   Annexation, 1928.
379   Annexation.
404   Annexation, 1961.
419   Annexation, 1967.
421   Annexation, 1967.
422   Annexation, 1967.
424   Annexation, Fleming, 1968.
440   Annexation, Norris, 1971.
441   Annexation, Fleming, 1971.
448   Annexation.
461   Annexation, high school, 1975.
470   Annexation, bank petition ordinance.
489   Annexation.
491   Annexation, disposal plant.
493   Annexation, Stultz.
532   Annexation, Yocum.
563   Annexation, Uphoff, 1994.
97-579   Annexation, Jasper, 1997.
97-582   Annexation, Dillon, 1997.
98-584   Annexation, Osborne, 1998.
98-586   Annexation, 1998.
98-588   Annexation, 1998.
618-02   Annexation, 2002.
637-03   Annexation, Chaplin Creek, 2003.
641-03   Annexation, Harris, 2003.
645-04   Annexation, 2004.
661-05   Annexation, 2005.
734-13   Annexation, 2013.
APPENDIX B
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
This appendix includes village ordinances concerning streets, roads, alleys,
sidewalks and public ways; and which pertain to:
Street and sidewalk construction and improvement, elections and
   bond issues for the same.
   Street lighting.
   Street name changes.
   Railroads and railroad tracks.
   Franchises.
Ord. No.   Description
107   Opening of a new alley, 1889.
120   Vacation of alley, 1892.
122   Vacation of alley, 1893.
167   Cement walk construction, 1903.
169   Cement sidewalks, 1903.
185   Sidewalks, 1906.
186   Sidewalks, 1906.
187   Sidewalks, 1906.
188   Sidewalks, 1906.
189   Sidewalks, 1906.
190   Sidewalks, 1906.
191   Sidewalks, 1906.
192   Sidewalks, 1906.
193   Sidewalks, 1906.
194   Sidewalks, 1906.
195   Sidewalks, 1906.
197   Sidewalks, 1907.
198   Sidewalks, 1907.
199   Sidewalks, 1907.
200   Sidewalks, 1907.
201   Sidewalks, 1907.
203   Sidewalks, 1907.
208   Street lighting, 1908.
216   Sidewalks, 1912.
223   Railroads, 1913.
250   Sidewalks, 1923.
271   Sidewalks, 1926.
284   Vacation of alley, 1929.
9-6-41   Local improvement bonds, Elm Street, 1941.
332   Local improvement bonds, Elm Street, 1941.
350   Motor fuel tax, street improvement date extension, 1948.
353   Street lighting system, 1949.
354   Special election, street lighting, 1949.
360   Telephone franchise.
367   Street bonds, 1953.
368   Street improvement bonds, 1953.
369   Special election, street improvement bonds, 1953.
381   Vacation of alley, 1955.
397A   Vacation of street, 1960.
405   Gas franchise, 1961.
457   Vacation of alley, 1974.
475   Continental Telephone franchise.
489   State Street.
492   Cable TV franchise.
508   Alley vacation (fire department).
524   Vacation of street, 1987.
728-12   Gas franchise, 2012.
APPENDIX C
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE
This appendix includes village ordinances pertaining to elections, bond issues
and agreements for the construction or extension of waterworks and sewerage
plants, facilities and mains.
Ord. No.   Description
85   Drainage, 1884.
90   Construction of tile drains, 1885.
108   Construction of tile drains, 1889.
207   Water system, 1908.
262   Special election, waterworks, 1924.
267   Special election, waterworks, 1925.
311   Refunding of waterworks bonds, 1936.
3-3-41   Special elections, waterworks, 1941.
349   Special election, sewer bonds, 1948.
387   Refunding waterworks revenue bonds, 1956.
388   Creating an issue of waterworks bonds, 1956.
393   Waterworks bonds, 1959.
394   Special election, waterworks bonds, 1958.
396   Issuing bonds, waterworks, 1959.
403   Sanitary district payments, 1961.
521   Amending ordinance 396, issuing bonds, waterworks, 1987.
97-577   Authorizing renewal of loan for 1989 sewer project, 1997.
R731-13   Application for community development assistance program grant, 2013.
R733-13   Application for a community development assistance program (CDAP)
grant, 2013.
R742-14   Application for a community development assistance program (CDAP)
grant, 2014.
APPENDIX D
ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX LEVIES
This appendix includes village ordinances pertaining to annual appropriations
and tax levies.
Ord. No.   Description
414B   Appropriation, 1966.
424B   Appropriation, 1969.
426B   Tax levy, 1968.
431   Appropriation, 1970.
432   Tax levy, 1970.
434   Appropriation, 1970.
435   Tax levy, 1970.
437   Appropriation, 1971.
438   Tax levy, 1971.
442   Tax levy, 1972.
443   Appropriation, 233, 1972.
449   Appropriation, 1973.
450   Tax levy, 1973.
455   Appropriation, 1974.
456   Tax levy, 1974.
462   Appropriation, 1975.
463   Tax levy, 1975.
467   Appropriation, 1976.
468   Tax levy, 1976.
471   Appropriation, 1977.
472   Tax levy, 1977.
473   Appropriation, 1978.
474   Tax levy, 1978.
477   Appropriation, 1979-1980.
478   Tax levy.
484   Appropriation, 1980-1981.
486   Tax levy.
490   Appropriation, 1981-1982.
495   Tax levy.
496   Appropriation, 1982-1983.
497   Tax levy.
500   Appropriation, 1983-1984.
502   Tax levy.
506   Appropriation, 1984-1985.
507   Tax levy.
511   Appropriation, 1985-1986.
516   Appropriation, 1986-1987.
518   Tax levy.
520   Appropriation, 1987-1988.
522   Tax levy.
526   Appropriation, 1988-1989.
527   Tax levy.
530   Appropriation, 1989-1990.
531   Tax levy.
535   Appropriation, 1990-1991.
537   Tax levy.
539   Appropriation, 1991-1992.
542   Tax levy.
547   Appropriation, 1992-1993.
548   Tax levy.
552   Appropriation, 1993-1994.
554   Tax levy.
559   Appropriation, 1994-1995.
562   Tax levy.
570   Appropriation, 1995-1996.
571   Tax levy.
96-575   Appropriation, 1996-1997.
96-576   Tax levy.
97-581   Appropriation, 1997-1998.
97-583   Tax levy.
98-587   Appropriation, 1998-1999.
98-589A   Tax levy.
592      Appropriation, 1999-2000.
99-595   Tax levy.
597      Appropriation, 2000-2001.
603-00   Tax levy.
611      Transfer of appropriations, 2001.
614A      Appropriation, 2001-2002.
616A-01   Tax levy.
620-02   Transfer of appropriations, 2002.
621      Appropriation, 2002-2003.
629-02   Tax levy.
633-03   Transfer of appropriations, 2003.
634-03   Appropriation, 2003-2004.
644-03   Tax levy.
646-04   Transfer of appropriations, 2004.
649-04   Appropriation, 2004-2005.
652-04   Tax levy.
660-05   Appropriation, 2005-2006.
663-05   Tax levy.
666-06   Appropriation, 2006-2007.
674-06   Tax levy.
687-07   Tax levy.
691-08   Appropriation, 2008-2009.
695-08   Tax levy.
699-09   Appropriation, 2009-2010.
701-09   Tax levy.
707-10   Appropriation, 2010-2011.
710-10   Tax levy.
713-11   Appropriation, 2011-2012.
717-11   Tax levy.
736-13   Appropriation, 2013-2014.
737-13   Tax levy.
741-14   Appropriation, 2014-2015.
APPENDIX E
MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL ORDINANCES
This appendix includes various miscellaneous special ordinances of the village
not included in any other appendix of this code.
Ord. No.   Description
398   Truck sale, 1960.
R3-10-75   Special election for police protection tax.
482   Grant agreement with EPA.
505   Sale of 2 trucks (Yocum).
549   Authorization of Commonwealth Edison Company to use public way and
property.
550   Membership in risk management association; execution of intergovernmental
cooperation contract.
553   Cablevision franchise - extension.
555   Drug free school, public parks, public housing, zone map ordinance.
561   Enterprise zone.
97-578   Amendment to enterprise zone ordinance.
589-98   Amendment to enterprise zone ordinance.
596-2000   Amendment to ordinance 561.
602A-00   Rezone.
606   Conveyance of property and intergovernmental agreement from Franklin
Grove sanitary district.
607   Authorization of conveyance of property to China Township.
608   Request for the conveyance of property from China Township.
614   Amendment to ordinance 561.
615   Amendment to boundaries of enterprise zone.
624-02   Rezone.
628-02   Call for referendum on Sunday liquor sales for off premises
consumption.
636-03   Amendment to ordinance 561.
643-03   IMLRMA intergovernment contract.
656-05   Setting water and sewer rates.
664-06   Amendment to ordinance 561.
667-06   Amendment to ordinance 561.
668-06   Zone map ordinance.
670-06   Adoption of official fee schedule.
673-06   Amendment to ordinance 561.
676-06   Setting water and sewer rates.
686-07   Request for the sale of real property from the Franklin Grove library
board.
688-07   Amendment to zoning map.
690-08   Establishment of procedure for sale or lease of surplus public real
estate.
694-08   Amendment to zoning map.
706-10   Setting water and sewer rates.
711-10   Amendment to ordinance 561.
712-11   Amendment to ordinance 561.
715-11   Amendment to ordinance 561.
720-11   Grant zone variance.
721-11   Providing for submission to electors whether village should have
authority to arrange for supply of electricity for customers who have not opted
out.
726-12   Authorizing aggregation of electrical load and adopting an electric
aggregation plan of operation and governance.
732-13   Amendment to ordinance 561.
738-14   Authorizing execution of the Illinois public works mutual aid network
agreement (IPWMAN).
744-14   Amendment to ordinance 561.
