FRANKLIN COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2014-09, passed 12-16-2014
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Procedure for maintenance of the code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for Franklin County, Illinois shall be designated
as “The Franklin County Code” or this code of ordinances and may be so cited.
(55 ILCS 5/5-29003)
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD or COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Franklin County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COUNTIES CODE. The Illinois Counties Code, 55 ILCS 5/1-1001 et seq.
   COUNTY. Franklin County, Illinois.
   COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Franklin County, irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTERmeans at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States or of this state or of any town or county of this state and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   OATH. Includes affirmation and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed
according to the rules of grammar and common usage.
      (2)   Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition or otherwise, shall be
construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in this state and then it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more county
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the County
Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the county shall be as set by the Time Standardization
Act (5 ILCS 440/1 et seq.).
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   To the extent possible, all provisions shall be given their full intended
application. If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of
these codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the specific
provision shall control over the general provision and the conflict shall be
construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the
question of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby and the subsequent ordinances as numbered
and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by the County
Board.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or provision of a section of these codified ordinances, or
the application thereof, to any person or circumstance is held invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the section or related sections
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application and to
this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted, as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   If a prior ordinance has not been incorporated and enumerated herein,
it shall retain its full force and effect and not be deemed repealed until such
time as it is enumerated herein or otherwise repealed.
   (C)   Any ordinance specifically providing for an effective date after a
certain number of days after adoption and such term has been met prior to the
adoption of this codification shall continue in full force and effect as of the
original effective date.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the County
Board or a certain county officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose, effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to those technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the county. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (55 ILCS 5/1-1011)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the State Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
        Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18  PROCEDURE FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Responsibility for maintenance of the code of ordinances is placed
within the County Board office. Books will not be given to the individual Board
members but be kept in the County Board office. The County Clerk’s office,
County Board Secretary, Office of the County Administrator and the County
State’s Attorney will also receive books.
   (B)   The procedure for the maintenance of the books will be as follows.
Revisions will be typed by a secretary in the County Board office and copies
made for each book. These copies will also be sent to the County Clerk’s
office, Office of the County Administrator, Office of the State’s Attorney and
County Board Secretary with instructions to insert the revisions in the proper
ordinance.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
county for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined
not more than $1,000 for each and every violation thereof and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. This penalty does not
restrict the imposition of civil penalties provided for failure to make returns
or pay any taxes levied by the county.
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1113
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   FEES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCES
      
35.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Policies and Procedures
   
30.01   State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor
   
30.02   Location of polls
   
30.03   Jury selection
   
30.04   Roadside memorials
   
30.05   Designated depositories
County Drug Program
   
30.20   Anti-crime program; funds
GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.01  STATE’S ATTORNEYS APPELLATE PROSECUTOR.
   (A)   Support. The County Board, in regular session, does hereby support the
continued operation of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor
and designates the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor as its
agent to administer the operation of the Appellate offices and process said
Appellate Court cases for this county.
   (B)   Authorization.
      (1)   The attorneys employed by the Office of the State’s Attorneys
Appellate Prosecutor are hereby authorized to act as Assistant State’s
Attorneys on behalf of the State’s Attorney of this county in the appeal of all
cases when requested to do so by the State’s Attorney and, with the advice and
consent of the State’s Attorney, prepare, file and argue appellate briefs for
those cases and also, as may be requested by the State’s Attorney, to assist in
the prosecution of cases under the State Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS
570/100 et seq.), the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.), the Drug
Assets Forfeiture Procedure Act (725 ILCS 150/1 et seq.) and the Narcotics
Profit Forfeiture Act (725 ILCS 175/1 et seq.).
      (2)   Such attorneys are further authorized to assist the State’s
Attorney in the State’s Attorney’s duties under the State Public Labor
Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.), including negotiations thereunder, as
well as in the trial and appeal of tax objections.
   (C)   Continuing legal education. The Office of the State’s Attorneys
Appellate Prosecutor will offer continuing legal education training programs to
the State’s Attorney and Assistant State’s Attorneys.
   (D)   Assistance. The attorneys employed by the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor may also assist the State’s Attorney of this
county in the discharge of the State’s Attorney’s duties in the prosecution and
trial of other cases and may act as special prosecutor if duly appointed to do
so by a court having jurisdiction.
(Res. 2012-52, passed 12-18-2012; Res. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013; Res. 2015-
16, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 30.02  LOCATION OF POLLS.
   The following lists all of the locations of the polls in the county:
Goode 1     V.F.W. Building        302 West Coal Street       Sesser
Goode 2     Township Building      108 North Walnut           Sesser
Barren      Township Building      15596 Rend City Road       Sesser
Ewing 1     Township Barn          412 West Main Street       Ewing
Ewing 2     Township Building      205 Harrison Street        Whittington
Northern    Township Building/Fire 21455 Ewing Road           Macedonia
            Station
Tyrone 1    Historical Society     2130 School House Road     Mulkeytown
            Building
Tyrone 2    City Hall/Civic Center 208 North Thomas Street    Christopher
Tyrone 3    City Hall              9124 Main Street           Coello
Tyrone 4    Hampton Building       604 South Mulkey Street    Christopher
Tyrone 5    Community Building     400 East Main Street       Valier
Browning 1  Village Hall           200 East Main Street       Buckner
Browning 2  Community Building     201 Browning Street        West City
Browning 3  Community Building     400 East Main Street       Valier
Benton 1    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Benton 2    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Benton 3    Village Hall           6342 Main Street           Logan
Benton 4    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Benton 5    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Benton 6    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Benton 7    Benton High School     511 East Main Street       Benton
Eastern     Township Building      22165 Main Street          Akin
Six-Mile 1  Village Hall           311 South Main Street      Royalton
Six-Mile 2  Township Building      15 Circle                  Zeigler
Six-Mile 3  Housing Building       200 East Maryland          Zeigler
Denning 1   Plumfield Water Office 2029 Plumfield Road        West Frankfort
Denning 2   Township Building      217 South Horn Street      West Frankfort
Denning 3   City Hall              404 Lincoln Street         Orient
Denning 4   Township Building      217 South Horn Street      West Frankfort
Denning 5   Township Building      217 South Horn Street      West Frankfort
Frankfort 1 Township Building      2003 East St. Louis Street West Frankfort
Frankfort 2 Precinct Hall          902 East Lindell Street    West Frankfort
Frankfort 3 Precinct Hall          106 South Jackson Street   West Frankfort
Frankfort 4 Precinct Hall          1713 East Oak Street       West Frankfort
Cave        Township Building      3716 Cherry Street         Thompsonville
 
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-20-1996)
§ 30.03  JURY SELECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 305/0.01 et seq., said County Board hereby adopts
the merged jury source list of all legal voters and state driver’s license
holders in the county, as prepared by the administrative office of the state
courts, to serve as the general jury list of the county.
   (B)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 305/0.01 et seq., said County Board hereby adopts
the active jury list of the county, as prepared by the administrative office of
the state courts, said active jury list being identified as Test 01.
   (C)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 305/0.01 et seq., said County Board hereby
accepts the list of juror names, in random order, on the active jury list of
the county as accomplished by the administrative office of the state courts and
further acknowledges that names may be used from the active jury list for
venire panels in the order such names appear on said list.
   (D)   The names of petit, grand and coroner juries shall be used, beginning
July 1, 1990, from the active jury list and, in the event such names are drawn
contemporaneously, the order of the draw shall first be petit, then grand, then
coroner.
(Res. 1990-01, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 30.04  ROADSIDE MEMORIALS.
   The County Board chooses to adopt 605 ILCS 125, Roadside Memorial Act,
including the memorial marker application, as the county’s policy and procedure
for allowing the placement of roadside memorials on county roadways.
(Res. 2012-24, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 30.05  DESIGNATED DEPOSITORIES.
   The following financial institutions shall be, and are hereby designated to
be, the depositories of public funds and monies of the county:
   (A)   Bank of America;
   (B)   Banterra Bank;
   (C)   Community National Bank;
   (D)   First Bank;
   (E)   Herrin Security Bank;
   (F)   South Pointe Bank;
   (G)   Southern Illinois Bank;
   (H)   State Bank of Whittington;
   (I)   Union Planters Bank; and
   (J)   US Bank.
(Res. 2004-63, passed 9-21-2004)
COUNTY DRUG PROGRAM
§ 30.20  ANTI-CRIME PROGRAM; FUNDS.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The County Board does hereby acknowledge, concurs with and joins in
the establishment of the County Drug Program, a local anti-crime fund, within
the meaning of 20 ILCS 3910/7.
      (2)   All monies contributed to said County Drug Program, a local anti-
crime program, shall be deposited in an account with the County Treasurer in
accordance with the terms of the Program.
      (3)   The County Board shall have full discretion to expend money from
the County Drug Program in accordance with terms of the Program.
   (B)   Coordinated approach.
      (1)   Substance abuse has long been a problem in the county and combating
substance abuse requires a coordinated effort by law enforcement, the courts,
governments and the community. Substance abuse problems continue to adversely
effect the county’s children and families either by the direct use of the
substances by members of the community or by the users’ criminal activity while
under the influence of substances or efforts to sustain their habit.
      (2)   Crimes, such as domestic violence, theft, burglary and child abuse,
often stem from the use of illicit substances, alcohol and prescription drugs.
      (3)   The County Sheriff and State’s Attorney hereby strive to achieve
better results in their efforts to deal with substance abuse issues by creating
a local anti-crime program within the meaning of 20 ILCS 3910/7.
   (C)   Financial impact of crime.
      (1)   The cost of crimes associated with substance abuse is enormous.
Financial losses of victims in the county of thefts and burglary over the past
decade are in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. Domestic violence victims
incur medical and counseling expenses in an effort to become healed from their
injuries. Many of these costs are ultimately born by the community as a whole
through taxes, payments made by Medicare, trips to the emergency room at the
local health care facilities, increased health insurance premiums or by
increased costs of products and goods when businesses are forced to raise
prices after losing money as a result of crime.
      (2)   Investigation and prosecution of these crimes is also expensive and
requires resources through all levels of the process. Law enforcement responds
to countless calls each shift. Each contact requires investigation and report.
Most serious crimes require the use of resources for days, months or even years
to properly present the case to the prosecutor and trier of fact. Appearances
at hearings and follow up work seems to never end as cases proceed through the
court process.
      (3)   Housing criminal defendants, either on pre-trial or after sentence,
at the county jail costs the county an enormous sum of money. Many defendants
come into the jail with physical or mental health care needs that have to be
addressed by the County Sheriff. Few detainees have health care coverage or
money to repay these expenses. The cost of operating the jail is the largest
expense incurred in the County Sheriff’s Department’s budget.
      (4)   The court system is overwhelmed by the growing number of cases on
the criminal and juvenile dockets. Last year (2011), approximately 1,000 felony
and misdemeanor cases, 79 juvenile delinquency cases and 62 juvenile abuse/
neglect/dependency cases were filed in the Circuit Court. In addition to those
cases filed, 72 minors were sent to juvenile diversion and countless other
adults and minors were dealt with by law enforcement agencies operating in the
county where a case was not formally charged.
      (5)   The vast majority of people entering the county and juvenile court
system are indigent and require court appointed representation. Court appointed
defense attorneys are more and more frequently requesting the appointment of
investigators and experts to assist them in the defense of defendants charged
with crimes.
      (6)   The state legislature continues to change the landscape of the
criminal justice system by imposing unfunded mandates such the requirements for
offender evaluations prior to sentencing and the establishment of county drug
courts. All of which continue to increase the financial burden on the county
court system.
      (7)   In juvenile abuse/neglect/dependency cases, which are almost always
situations created as a result of a parents’ or caretakers’ substance abuse as
a direct or underlying cause, it is necessary for the court to appoint
attorneys not only to represent each of the parents but an attorney to serve as
guardian ad litem for the child or children of the families. Juvenile cases can
last for years. The Federal Adoption and Safe Families Act mandates that the
court seek to establish permanency in a child’s life once he or she comes into
care and requires hearings every six months to check the status of achieving
established goals. At all times, the county juvenile court system is monitoring
hundreds of children and families.
      (8)   In sum, substance abuse problems in the community have placed a
heavy burden on the county, which requires a more comprehensive and
collaborative approach on the part of law enforcement, government, the courts
and the community to effectively combat.
   (D)   The County Drug Program, a local anti-crime program; 20 ILCS 3910/7.
      (1)   It is essential that public awareness of the problems associated
with substance abuse be increased. The public needs to be aware of the dangers
of relatively new types of manufactured drugs, such as methamphetamine and
synthetically produced controlled substances, as well as the problems
associated with the abuse of other illicit substances, alcohol and prescription
medications.
      (2)   For example, the process of the production of methamphetamine
creates an imminent danger to the community as methamphetamine manufacturing
labs, remnants and the materials used in the process are extremely volatile and
have caused serious burn injuries to unsuspecting people who happen upon them
and people involved in the process. Producers of methamphetamine are not
concerned with safety and, more often than not, scatter the materials used to
produce the drug around the county to avoid detection by law enforcement.
      (3)   Increased public awareness and education are important to prevent
the use of substances in the community. Education of youths on addiction and
providing other outlets for their healthy growth and development is critical.
Partnerships with, and support of, local youth focused community groups will
assist in this venture.
      (4)   The public needs to be encouraged and programs developed to
increase the reporting of incidences of crime in order for law enforcement to
more effectively and efficiently respond, apprehend suspects and prosecute
criminals (20 ILCS 3910/7).
      (5)   The Program should seek partnership with, and support of, local
community based groups to assist in the public reporting of crime, drug
awareness and drug education campaigns.
   (E)   Investigation and prosecution.
      (1)   Law enforcement needs to continue to evolve to the ever changing
problems associated with substance abuse and the criminal conduct it spawns.
New synthetically produced drugs and controlled substances marketed and sold to
the public either on the Internet, on the streets or at retail establishments
and the changing processes for the production of methamphetamine are just a few
of the challenges that the county faces.
      (2)   Financial related crimes such as theft, identity theft, burglary
and robbery have exploded as addicts try to finance their habits through crime.
In today’s world, money changes hands with the click of a mouse or the swipe of
a card and criminals have found ways to steal and exploit victims who often do
not know they have been violated for several weeks after the attack.
      (3)   Law enforcement must continue to be responsive and proactive in
this relatively new arena of computer and digital crime and establish sound
investigative and prosecutorial techniques to obtain convictions.
      (4)   The Program should provide resources as are necessary for research,
training, staffing, compensation and equipment for the County Sheriff’s office
and the State’s Attorneys’ office to help achieve the Program’s stated goals.
   (F)   Court services. The Program recognizes the need to support the county
court system and court services to more comprehensively deal with substance
abuse problems in the county. The Program should specifically support the needs
of children and families who have been afflicted by substance abuse issues of a
parent or caretaker.
   (G)   Statement of support; Drug Task Force.
      (1)   The County Sheriff and State’s Attorney will work together with
each other and other agencies to attempt to better address the problems
associated with substance abuse in the community.
      (2)   A Drug Task Force is hereby created between these two law
enforcement agencies, pursuant to 20 ILCS 3910/7, which shall meet, collaborate
and work together toward reducing the problems associated with substance abuse
and crime in the county. The Task Force shall report to the County Board on its
recommendations for program needs, expenditures and funding. The County Sheriff
and State’s Attorney state and agree that the problems and needs, as outlined
in this section, are appropriate areas for expenditures from the County Drug
Program, a local anti-crime program.
   (H)   Funding.
      (1)   The Program should be funded primarily by the criminal defendants
and substance abusers who are responsible for the problems as discussed herein.
Contributions to the County Drug Program should be sought from defendants
involved in the county court system as part of their sentences (730 ILCS 5/5-6-
3(b)(13)). Forfeiture proceedings should be aggressively pursued against assets
involved in criminal conduct pursuant to the State Criminal Code.
      (2)   In short, criminals should be held accountable for their conduct
and should be looked at first to fund these programs. The reality of the
situation is, however, that the County Drug Program cannot be fully funded by
the criminals. The substance abuse problem, and its impact on the community, is
so immense that the Program must look to other funding sources.
      (3)   Grant money should be pursued from state and federal agencies to
help finance the programs that they have mandated be employed. The Program will
also seek continued support from the County Board, as is necessary, to address
the community’s substance abuse problems.
   (I)   Deposits and expenditures.
      (1)   All money contributed to the Program shall be deposited in an
account with the County Treasurer, who shall be the custodian of the account.
The money deposited in the account shall be accounted for separately from other
county funds as the County Drug Program, a local anti-crime program.
      (2)   Money shall be distributed from the account by the County Board for
payment of programs, services, training, equipment, compensation or other
expenses necessary for the effective operation of the Program, as outlined
herein, at its sole discretion.
   (J)   Modification of Program. This Program may be modified by written
agreement between the County Sheriff and the State’s Attorney, however, the
County Board shall always retain full discretion over all money expended from
the County Drug Program, a local anti-crime fund as detailed in division (I)
above.
   (K)   Effective date. The County Drug Program, a local anti-crime program,
as defined by 20 ILCS 3910/7, is so established on April, 16, 2012.
(Res. 2012-17, passed 4-17-2012)
CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of the Housing Authority
   
31.001   Number of members
Department of Mapping and Platting
   
31.015   Administration
   
31.016   Lots designated
   
31.017   Adequate bearings
   
31.018   Plats
   
31.019   Identified points
   
31.020   Description of required plats
   
31.021   Curved line descriptions
   
31.022   Tax district
   
31.023   Tract exceptions
   
31.024   Requirements of subdivision chapter
   
31.025   Road approval criteria
   
31.026   Required approval seal
   
31.027   Fee
   
31.028   Effective date
County Sheriff’s Department Merit Commission
   
31.055   Establishment
   
31.056   Appointment; term of office
   
31.057   Removal
   
31.058   Organization; meetings; reporting
   
31.059   Budget
   
31.060   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.061   Application
   
31.062   Rules, regulations and procedures
   
31.063   Original appointment; promotions
   
31.064   Discipline
   
31.065   Subpoena
   
31.066   Administrative Review Act
Utility Coordination Council
   
31.080   Establishment
BOARD OF THE HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 31.001  NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members and terms.
      (1)   The number of members of the Board of the Housing Authority shall
be increased from five to seven.
      (2)   Two new appointed members of the Board of the Housing Authority
shall have terms of five years and four years respectively.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   The position of the new member of the Board of the Housing
Authority appointed to the five-year term shall be a position that requires
that particular member to be a resident, in good standing of the Housing
Authority, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq., the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (as amended) and as implemented by relevant provisions of the Code of
Federal Regulations.
      (2)   Should this required resident member no longer be a resident of the
county, for any reason, then the required resident’s position shall be deemed
vacant and the County Board shall appoint a new qualified resident member to
the Board of the Housing Authority to fill the unexpired term of the required
resident’s position.
      (3)   The Board of the Housing Authority, and/or the Executive Director
of the Housing Authority, shall immediately notify the County Board in writing
if the required resident member is no longer a resident of the County and the
appointment shall occur at the next regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the
County Board after said written notification.
(Res. 2002-34, passed 5-21-2002)
DEPARTMENT OF MAPPING AND PLATTING
§ 31.015  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Department Chief Clerk created. There is hereby created the County
Geographic Information System (hereinafter referred to as G.I.S.) Department of
Mapping and Platting Department Chief Clerk.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The G.I.S. Mapping and Platting
Department Chief Clerk shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Maintenance of the County G.I.S. System;
      (2)   Review all plats pursuant to 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., the Plat
Act;
      (3)   Update property maps, in G.I.S. format, for the county whenever a
plat is filed, property is divided, municipal corporate boundary lines are
changed and/or any other map corrections, revisions or additions are made;
      (4)   Issue new parcel numbers whenever property is divided or a
subdivision plat is filed;
      (5)   Prepare and keep a genealogy listing for every parcel in the
county; and
      (6)   Forward information to the Supervisor of Assessments for entry of
new legal descriptions for parcels created by division of lands, or combination
of lands, upon the records of the Supervisor of Assessments.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.016  LOTS DESIGNATED.
   All lots in any municipality or regularly recorded subdivision need only be
designated by the number of the lot or lots and blocks and the name of the
subdivision or addition to any subdivision.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.017  ADEQUATE BEARINGS.
   Any portion of a lot or lots should have adequate bearings and dimensions or
be tied into street or road intersections and lot lines on a recorded plat.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.018  PLATS.
   No metes and bounds descriptions shall refer to a plat or survey if the
description is subject to the provision of 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., the Plat
Act unless in compliance with the Plat Act.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.019  IDENTIFIED POINTS.
   Metes and bounds descriptions of all tracts in plats or surveys must begin
at some known point of beginning that can be readily identified and is so
established and witnessed that it can be relocated with certainty if the marker
or monument that identified the point should be destroyed or removed. Markers
or monuments referred to for a beginning point must be a highway or street
intersection on a recorded plat, section corners, quarter-section corners and
boundaries or a stone or other permanent marker properly located and witnessed.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.020  DESCRIPTION OF REQUIRED PLATS.
   All calls in the metes and bounds description must have an angular bearing
or course that is defined by degrees, minutes and seconds and must have a
distance measured in chains, rods or feet and inches or to a permanently
identified point. Following the course of a public road is an acceptable
bearing if said bearing relates to the location of the road as of the date of
the deed. The description must close; that is, if the courses and distances of
the description are followed step-by-step from corner to corner, one must come
back to the point of beginning with the error of closure not greater than one
in 5,000.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.021  CURVED LINE DESCRIPTIONS.
   All calls in the description which follow a curved line must refer to the
point or tangency of the curve as well as to the radius point or must follow
the curve of a street or highway, as established on recorded plat. The distance
given on the call of a curved line should be identified as being measured along
the curve or on the arc of the curve. Arc length and radius are preferred. If
using deflection angles, the chord bearing must be included in order to have
the proper direction of the curve.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.022  TAX DISTRICT.
   When a tract lies in two or more tax districts, the acreage shall be divided
by the assessor and improvements on such tract shall be assessed in the
district in which the major portion of such improvement lies.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.023  TRACT EXCEPTIONS.
   Deeds or other conveyances containing exceptions must recite the legal
description of the excepted parcel and shall comply with the provisions of 765
ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., the State Plat Act where applicable.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.024  REQUIREMENTS OF SUBDIVISION CHAPTER.
   No plat of a subdivision shall be marked as approved for recording unless
the plat has previously been approved through the provisions of
Ch. 151.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.025  ROAD APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   For the purpose of plat or survey approval under the provisions of
this subchapter, a road shall be identified and determined acceptable only when
it meets the following criteria.
      (1)   Road must have been platted and recorded in the County Clerk’s
office.
      (2)   Road must be shown as a maintained county road, road district or
private road, as certified to the County Engineer by the respective road
district commissioner, and maintained in a booklet in the County Engineer’s
office.
   (B)   Any plat or survey making reference to a road not meeting the above
criteria must be approved through the procedures of
Ch. 151.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.026  REQUIRED APPROVAL SEAL.
   Upon passing the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be required that
any plat or survey, prior to being recorded, must be checked and approved for
compliance with the provisions of 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., the Plat Act and
of this subchapter. The County Board shall appoint a person and establish a
Department of Mapping and Platting, setting forth authority to approve or
disapprove any plat or survey that does not meet the requirements of the Plat
Act. Any plat or survey that does not carry the required approval seal shall
not be recorded by the County Clerk and Recorder.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.027  FEE.
   A fee shall be levied against every plat or survey that is recorded in the
county. This fee shall consist of a $25 charge which shall be added to and
collected at the time the plat or survey is reviewed. County, state and federal
governments will be exempt from this fee. The monies collected by this fee
shall then be deposited in the County G.I.S. Fund to reimburse the county for
providing this service.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 31.028  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derive shall be
in effect from and after its passage, approval and publication, as required by
law.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-16-2010)
COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT MERIT COMMISSION
§ 31.055  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a County Sheriff’s Department Merit Commission.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 55 ILCS 5/3-8001 et seq.
§ 31.056  APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The County Sheriff, with the approval of a majority of the members of
the County Board, is hereby authorized and directed to appoint three members to
the Commission within 60 days after the adoption of the ordinance from which
the provisions of this subchapter derive. Of the initial appointments, one
shall be for a term of two years, one for a term of four years and one for a
term of six years. The respective successors of the initial members shall be
appointed in the same manner as the original appointments for six-year terms.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of a Commissioner, the County
Sheriff, with the approval of a majority of the members of the County Board,
shall appoint a suitable person to serve the unexpired portion of that
Commissioner’s term. If the County Sheriff fails to appoint a person to fill
the vacancy within 30 days, the County Chairperson shall appoint a person to
fill the unexpired portion of the term, with the approval of a majority of the
members of the County Board.
   (C)   No more than two of the members appointed may be affiliated with the
same political party.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.057  REMOVAL.
   (A)   No member of the Commission shall be removed except for palpable
incompetence or malfeasance in office upon written charges filed by, or at the
direction of, the County Sheriff or the County Board. The Chief Judge for the
Second Judicial Circuit and two circuit judges shall constitute the Board of
Hearing to hear and determine the charges and its findings shall be final.
   (B)   If the charges are sustained, the member of the commission so charged
shall be forthwith removed from office by the Board of Hearings and the County
Sheriff, with the approval of a majority of the members of the County Board,
shall thereupon proceed to fill the vacancy created by the removal. In any
proceedings provided for in this section, the Board of Hearings, and each
member thereof, shall have the power to administer oaths and to compel by
subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books
and papers.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.058  ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; REPORTING.
   (A)   As soon as practicable, after the members of the Commission have been
appointed, the County Sheriff shall call the first meeting and they shall meet
and organize by selecting a Chair, a Vice-Chair and a Secretary.
   (B)   The initial officers and their successors shall be selected by the
Commission from among its members for a term of two years, or for the remainder
of the term of office as a member of the Commission, whichever is shorter.
   (C)   Meetings shall be held upon the call of the Chair or upon the call of
two members. Two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum at all
meetings. The Secretary shall keep and maintain a record of its meetings and
the business conducted therein.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.059  BUDGET.
   The County Board shall provide a sufficient sum of money each fiscal year to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.060  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Commission shall have the duties to compile the eligibility list for the
County Sheriff for purposes of hiring and promotion within the Department and
shall also serve as the appeals board from any disciplinary action taken by the
County Sheriff. The decision of the County Sheriff’s Department Commission on
any appeal filed by a sworn member of the County Sheriff’s Department shall be
final.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.061  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter, and the rules, regulations and procedures of the
Commission, shall be applicable to all sworn employees (excluding probationary
employees) of the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.062  RULES, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Commission shall formulate, adopt and place into effect rules,
regulations and procedures for its operation and the transaction of its
business. The powers and authority contained herein shall not be limited to
those specifically stated, but shall be in addition to such power and authority
as may be included within the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.063  ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT; PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   The original appointment of all sworn personnel, subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be made by the County Sheriff from those
applicants who have been certified by the Commission as being qualified for
appointment. The Commission shall, in its rules, set forth the minimum
requirements for appointment to any position. Additionally, the Commission’s
review of any application may include examination, investigation or any other
method consistent with recognized merit principles which are reasonable and
practical for any particular classification.
   (B)   Whenever a position in a higher rank is to be filled, the County
Sheriff’s Merit Commission shall certify to the County Sheriff the names of
persons who are eligible for promotion on the basis of ascertained merit,
seniority of service and physical and other qualifying examinations. The County
Sheriff shall appoint for promotions from those names certified by the
Commission.
   (C)   All vacancies in all ranks of deputy sheriff above the lowest rank
shall be filled by promotion, except that the Commission may provide in its
rules and regulations that a former sheriff may be appointed by a successor
sheriff to any rank after he or she has been certified by the Commission.
Persons promoted to a higher rank shall be on probation in the higher rank for
a period of 12 months. Such appointee may be demoted by the County Sheriff to
his or her former rank at any time during the period of probation if, in the
opinion of the County Sheriff, he or she has failed to demonstrate the ability
and qualifications necessary to provide satisfactory service.
   (D)   All appointments and promotions shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter and the rules and regulations of the Commission
without consideration of the political affiliation of any applicant.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.064  DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The Commission shall have no authority in disciplinary matters
involving sworn personnel other than to serve as an appeal board from any
disciplinary action taken by the County Sheriff. Any sworn officer (excluding
probationary employees) who has been suspended, demoted or terminated by action
of the County Sheriff may appeal that action to the Commission. The Commission
has the authority to affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the County
Sheriff. The Commission’s decision shall be in writing and presented to the
employee and County Sheriff within five business days of the hearing.
   (B)   The County Sheriff may, prior to suspension or termination, file
charges with the Commission for a hearing prior to disciplinary action. Upon
filing such charges, the County Sheriff may suspend the sworn employee pending
the decision of the Commission on the charges.
   (C)   The Commission shall set forth its hearing procedures in its rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.065  SUBPOENA.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power to secure by its subpoena both the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books and papers in
support of the charges and for the defense. Each member of the Commission shall
have the power to administer oaths. Any person who is served with a subpoena to
appear and testify or produce books and papers issued by the Commission, and
who shall neglect to appear or to testify or to produce books and papers
relevant to such investigation, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. The
fees of witnesses for attendance and travel shall be the same as the fees of
witnesses before the Circuit Court of this state.
   (B)   Any Circuit Court in this state, or any judge thereon, upon
application of any member of the Commission, or a person acting under the
direction of the Commission may, in his or her discretion, compel the
attendance of witnesses, the production of books and papers and giving
testimony before the Commission by an attachment for contempt or otherwise in
the same manner as production of evidence may be compelled by the court.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
§ 31.066  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW ACT.
   The Administrative Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., as now or hereafter
amended, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern all
proceedings for judicial review of any decision of the Commission.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-17-1991)
UTILITY COORDINATION COUNCIL
§ 31.080  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Utility Coordination Council is hereby established effective the date of
the resolution from which the provisions of this section derive which includes
the County Engineer, the County Chairperson, or his or her designee, and such
utility companies as determined by the County Engineer to best facilitate and
accomplish the requirements of the Highway Authority. Said utility company
members may be added to, or removed from, the Utility Coordination Council as
determined by the County Engineer.
(Res. 2001-29, passed 10-16-2001)
CHAPTER 32:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Emergency Management Agency
   
32.02   Surplus Property Program
   
32.03   Director of Emergency Management; credentials
   
32.04   County Citizens Corps
   
32.05   Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
32.06   National Incident Management System
Emergency Management Program
   
32.20   Establishment; purpose; employment; statutory authority
   
32.21   Limitations
   
32.22   Definitions
   
32.23   Functions and responsibilities
   
32.24   Municipal emergency management efforts
   
32.25   Agreements and contracts
   
32.26   Emergency Operations Plan
   
32.27   Worker’s compensation
   
32.28   Director of Emergency Management
   
32.29   Agency headquarters; facilities
   
32.30   Emergency medical services
   
32.31   Mobile support team
   
32.32   Disaster declarations
   
32.33   Emergency powers
   
32.34   Testing of emergency warning systems
   
32.35   Mutual aid between political subdivisions
   
32.36   Immunity
   
32.37   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
32.38   Orders, rules and regulations
   
32.39   Existing agency; utilization
   
32.40   Oath of office
   
32.41   No private liability
   
32.42   Prohibition of political activity
   
32.43   Effective date
Emergency 9-1-1 Service
   
32.55   Emergency Telephone System
   
32.56   Display of 9-1-1 Emergency System numbers on buildings
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   The County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall be, from this day
forward, recognized as the Emergency Management Agency.
(Res. 2005-66, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 32.02  SURPLUS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
   The Emergency Management Agency is authorized to participate in the State
Federal Surplus Property Program.
(Res. 2005-67, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 32.03  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; CREDENTIALS.
   The Director of Emergency Management is hereby authorized to produce
credentials on an as requested basis for emergency response organizations and
partners that request such credentialing assistance. The Director of Emergency
Management is further authorized to collect fees, not to exceed $5 per
credential, to offset the costs of production. Such fees will be deposited into
the County Treasury and will be used to conduct credentialing and support
emergency management operations.
(Res. 2011-63, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 32.04  COUNTY CITIZENS CORPS.
   (A)   The County Citizen Corps is hereby recognized to carry out additional
emergency preparedness functions.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency is authorized to coordinate such
activities.
(Res. 2010-21, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 32.05  MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The County Board hereby adopts the 2011 Amendment to the County Multi-Hazard
Mitigation Plan as an official amendment to the plan and the Emergency
Management Agency will submit, on behalf of the participating municipalities,
the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan to the State Emergency Management
Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for final review and
approval.
(Res. 2011-17, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 32.06  NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   It shall be the public policy of this county to adopt the NIMS concept of
emergency planning and unified command. It shall further be the policy of this
county to train public officials responsible for emergency management.
(Res. 2004-71, passed 12-21-2004)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 32.20  ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE; EMPLOYMENT; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the county governmental organization an
entity to be known as the Emergency Management Agency. This entity shall be
responsible for the coordination of all emergency management programs within
its jurisdiction and with private organizations, other political subdivisions,
the state and federal government in accordance with the provisions of the State
Emergency Management Act (20 ILCS 3305), hereinafter the “IEMA Act”.
   (B)   The purpose of the Emergency Management Agency shall be the
coordination of emergency services functions, which may be necessary for or
proper to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting
from any natural or human-caused hazards.
   (C)   The Emergency Management Agency shall consist of the Director of
Emergency Management and such additional employees as appointed by the Director
of Emergency Management in accordance with county policy.
   (D)   All functions of the Emergency Management Agency shall, at all times,
be in accordance with this subchapter and the provisions of the IEMA Act and
all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.21LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this subchapter or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers, may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   (C)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Governor to proclaim
martial law or exercise any other powers vested in him or her under the
constitution, statues or common law of this state, independent of, or in
conjunction with, any provisions of this subchapter;
   (D)   Limit any home-rule unit or prohibit any contract or association
pursuant to Article VII, § 10 of the State Constitution; or
   (E)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the county’s chief elected
official to assign additional duties to the Emergency Management Agency, as
needed.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. Chairperson of the county board, supervisor of a
township, if the township is in a county having a population of more than
2,000,000, mayor of a city or incorporated town, president of a village or, in
his or her absence or disability, the interim successor, as established
pursuant to § 7 of the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/
7.
   DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The staff assistant to the County
Chairperson, herein after referred to as the County Chairperson, of a political
subdivision with the duty of coordinating the emergency management programs of
that political subdivision.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, aviation emergencies or acts of terrorism.
   DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE. A planned event, designed specifically to
simulate an actual disaster, which will provide emergency operations training
for emergency response personnel. Actual response by the FCEMA to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this section,
is considered a disaster training exercise; provided, however, that performance
of the usual and customary emergency functions of a political subdivision
(e.g., police, fire or emergency medical services) is not included within this
definition of a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of the state and the political
subdivisions to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, implement and maintain
programs for emergency mitigation, prevention, preparedness, response and
recovery.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY. The agency established by ordinance within a
political subdivision to coordinate the emergency management program within
that political subdivision and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, the state and federal governments.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the state and political
subdivisions describing the organization, mission and functions of the
government and supporting services for responding to, and recovering from,
emergencies.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The coordination of functions by the state and its
political subdivisions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or human-
caused hazards. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting
services, police services, emergency aviation services, medical and health
services, hazardous materials and technical rescue teams, rescue, engineering,
warning services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special
weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas,
emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life
or property.
   ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY or IEMA. The agency, established by
this subchapter, within the executive branch of state government, responsible
for coordination of the overall emergency management program of the state and
with private organizations, political subdivisions and the federal government.
   MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM. The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
Governor or, if he or she so authorizes the Director of the State Emergency
Management Agency, by the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency, to
supplement local political subdivisions for emergency management programs in
response to a disaster.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city, village and incorporated town.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village, incorporated town or
township, if the township is in a county having a population of more than
2,000,000.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.23  FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall perform such emergency
management functions within the county as prescribed in this subchapter and the
IEMA Act and, in addition, conduct such emergency management related functions
outside of the jurisdictional limits as may be required under mutual aid
agreements and contracts as are entered into.
   (B)   The specific functions that the Emergency Management Agency shall
perform include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Developing emergency plans and standard operating procedures which
outline emergency management responsibilities of county government, as well as
activities which ensure coordination among and between local, county, state and
federal governments. This includes various county emergency action plans for
facility use and COOP/COG plans;
      (2)   Coordinating with private relief agencies in the development of
capabilities to ensure the provision of relief supplies and assistance to
disaster victims as well as emergency management responders and their families;
      (3)   Developing, conducting and evaluating emergency management
exercises, designed to test the ability of local and county governments to
respond to emergencies, public health emergencies and disasters;
      (4)   Receiving and analyzing information regarding potential hazards,
regardless of their nature, and disseminating appropriate warning information
to county officials and municipalities within the county and, as appropriate,
the general public;
      (5)   Supporting the National Incident Management System (NIMS), in
preparation for, and throughout the response and recovery phases of, an
emergency, disaster, public health emergency or significant event, through the
activation of the county’s Emergency Operations Center, Emergency Operations
Plan and deployment of appropriate resources;
      (6)   Develop and issue media releases in preparation for, or during
periods of, impending or actual disaster or other emergency or public health
emergency situation;
      (7)   Providing emergency lighting and electrical generation capability
at the site of an emergency or following the loss of power at a governmental or
other critical facility;
      (8)   Enhancing the capability of county and local government to respond
to emergency, public health emergency or disaster situations by stockpiling and
the delivery of critical supplies and/or resources;
      (9)   Establishing and maintaining a communications system within the
county’s Emergency Operations Center, Mobile Operations Center, capable of
communicating with key county departments, as well as appropriate state and
federal agencies;
      (10)   Utilizing these systems and others, as appropriate, to manage
communication resources during an emergency, public health emergency or
disaster;
      (11)   Assisting any county department, as requested, with services
within the scope of the Emergency Management Program;
      (12)   Managing the County Citizens Corps program and assisting in the
coordination of the local Emergency Planning Committee; and
      (13)   Overseeing and managing the county’s interests as it relates to
emergency medical services (EMS). (Refer to § 32.30)
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.24  MUNICIPAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT EFFORTS.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall not have jurisdiction within a
political subdivision that has its own certified and/or accredited emergency
management agency, but shall cooperate with the emergency management agency of
a city, village or incorporated town within its borders as long as the
municipal agency is compliant and certified within the requirements of the IEMA
Act.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency shall ensure that all recognized
municipal emergency management agencies seeking certification are compliant
with the IEMA Act and established certification standards set forth by the
Director of Emergency Management.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.25  AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall have the authority to sign
agreements with local jurisdictions to provide emergency management related
services when the local jurisdiction is unable to provide, or chooses not to
provide, its own emergency management program.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency may enter into contracts and incur
obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to combat such
disasters in order to protect the health and safety of persons and to protect
property and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those disasters. If
such a disaster occurs, the county may exercise the powers vested under this
subchapter in the light of the exigencies of the disaster and, excepting
mandatory constitutional requirements, without regard to the procedures and
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public
work, entering into contacts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials and the appropriation, expenditure and disposition of public funds
and property.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.26  EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall prepare and keep current an
Emergency Operations Plan for its geographic boundaries. It shall be submitted
to the IEMA for review and approval, in accordance with paragraph G of § 10 of
the IEMA Act, 20 ILCS 3305/10(g).
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency shall prepare and distribute to all
appropriate officials in written form a clear and complete statement of the
emergency responsibilities of all local departments and officials and of the
disaster chain of command. This function will be addressed in the county’s
Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.27  WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency personnel who, while engaged in a
disaster or disaster training exercise, suffers disease, injury or death,
shall, for the purposes of benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act or
Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act only, be deemed to be employees of the
state, if:
      (1)   The claimant is duly qualified and enrolled (sworn in) as a
volunteer of the State Emergency Management Agency or an emergency management
agency accredited by the State Emergency Management Agency; and
      (2)   The claimant was participating in an actual disaster as defined in
§
32.22 of this chapter (§ 4 of the IEMA Act) or the exercise participated in was
specifically and expressly approved by the State Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The State Emergency Management Agency shall use the same criteria for
approving an exercise and utilizing state volunteers, as required for any
political subdivision.
   (C)   The computation of benefits payable under either of those acts shall
be based on the income commensurate with comparable state employees doing the
same type work, or income from the person’s regular employment, whichever is
greater.
   (D)   Additionally, sworn personnel of the Emergency Management Agency will
be considered regular employees of county government for the purposes of
benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act or the Workers’ Occupational
Diseases Act.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.28  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall have a Director of Emergency
Management who shall be appointed by the chief elected official, with the
advice and consent of the County Board, and shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management, or his or her designee, shall:
      (1)   Maintain direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Emergency Management Agency,
subject to the direction and control of the chief elected official, as provided
by statute;
      (2)   Respond to and coordinate the management of all large scale
emergency incidents in the jurisdiction including, but not limited to, all
incidents of mass casualties, disasters, major hazards to public health and
safety and risks of major loss of property;
      (3)   Coordinate the county’s involvement in the full range of activities
within which domestic incident management activities occur, including
awareness, prevention, mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery to
emergencies, disasters and significant events, as defined by the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security and the national response framework; and
      (4)   Perform duties as assigned in the job description for the position
of Director of Emergency Management and other duties as assigned by the chief
elected official.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.29  AGENCY HEADQUARTERS; FACILITIES.
   The Emergency Management Agency shall have designated administrative
headquarters and operational facilities as authorized by the County Board.
Additional facilities may be procured by the Emergency Management Agency during
a declared disaster to augment disaster response and recovery activities.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.30  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency, subject to the direction and control
of the chief elected official, shall oversee and manage the county’s interests
as it relates to emergency medical service (EMS). The Director of Emergency
Management, or his or her designee, will oversee and manage the county’s
efforts to provide emergency medical services to the public. The Director will
liaison and oversee all authorized county-level EMS transportation providers to
ensure adequate services are being provided in accordance with the county’s
established operational standards and requirements for county-level EMS
transportation providers.
   (B)   The County Board, through its established processes, will authorize
county-level EMS transportation providers at its discretion.
   (C)   The Director of Emergency Management will ensure that all operational
standards and requirements set forth by the County Board are being adhered to
by all county-level EMS transportation providers.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.31  MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All sworn personnel of the Emergency Management Agency may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the
State Emergency Management Agency in accordance with the IEMA Act.
   (B)   The leader of such local mobile support team shall be designated by
the Director of Emergency Management. Any member of a mobile support team who
is a county employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor
or the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency shall receive the
compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to
such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the county while so serving shall receive from the state reasonable
compensation, as provided by law.
   (C)   Personnel who are paid employees or officers of the county, if called
for training by the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency, shall
receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached
to the position held. Members who are not paid employees shall receive for such
training such compensation as may be established by the County Board.
   (D)   The County Board may, from time to time, establish compensation rates
for non-compensated personnel in response to emergencies. This will be done at
the discretion of the County Board.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.32  DISASTER DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the chief elected official,
or his or her interim emergency successor, as provided in § 7 of the Emergency
Interim Executive Succession Act (5 ILCS 275/7 et seq.). It shall not be
continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by, or with
the consent of, the governing board of the county. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the County Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
Emergency Operations Plan and to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance
thereunder. The declaration will also enact any emergency powers given to local
officials contained in this subchapter. All county departments and partner
organizations with responsibilities listed in the county’s Emergency Operations
Plan will coordinate within the county’s Emergency Operations Center to bring
said disaster situation to a rapid conclusion.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.33  EMERGENCY POWERS.
   (A)   In the event of a disaster, as defined in §
32.22, the chief elected official may, by proclamation, declare that a disaster
exists.
   (B)   Upon such proclamation, the chief elected official shall have, and may
exercise, for a period not to exceed 30 days, the following emergency powers;
provided, however, that the lapse of the emergency powers shall not, as regards
any act or acts occurring or committed within the 30-day period, deprive any
person, firm, corporation, political subdivision or body politic of any right
or rights to compensation or reimbursement which he, she, it or they may have
under the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   To suspend the provisions of any regulatory ordinance prescribing
procedures for conduct of county business or the orders, rules and regulations
of any county agency, if strict compliance with the provisions of any
ordinance, order, rule or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay
necessary action, including emergency purchases by the Emergency Management
Agency, in coping with the disaster;
      (2)   To utilize all available resources of the county government as
reasonably necessary to cope with the disaster and of each political
subdivision of the county;
      (3)   To transfer the direction, personnel or functions of county
departments and agencies, or units thereof, for the purpose of performing or
facilitating disaster response and recovery programs;
      (4)   To control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of premises therein;
      (5)   To suspend or limit the sale, dispensing or transportation of
alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives and combustibles. A declaration of a
disaster shall activate the County Emergency Operations Plan and the political
subdivision emergency operations plans applicable to the political subdivision
or area in question and be authority for the deployment and use of any forces
that the Plan or plans apply and for use or distribution of any supplies,
equipment and materials and facilities assembled, stockpiled or arranged to be
made available under this subchapter or any other provision of law relating to
disasters;
      (6)   Control, restrict and regulate by rationing, freezing, use of
quotas, prohibitions on shipments, price fixing, allocation or other means, the
use, sale or distribution of food, feed, fuel, clothing and other commodities,
materials, goods or services;
      (7)   Perform and exercise any other functions, powers and duties as may
be necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian
population; and
      (8)   Prohibit increases in the prices of goods and services during a
disaster.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.34  TESTING OF EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEMS.
   The Emergency Management Agency shall be allowed to test disaster-warning
devices, including outdoor warning sirens, on the first Tuesday of each month
at 10:00 a.m and may also test disaster-warning devices, including outdoor
warning sirens, during disaster training exercises that are specifically and
expressly approved in advance by the State Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.35  MUTUAL AID BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Emergency Management may, in collaboration with other
public agencies within his or her immediate vicinity, develop, or cause to be
developed, mutual aid arrangements with other political subdivisions for
reciprocal disaster response and recovery assistance in case a disaster is too
great to be dealt with unassisted. Such arrangements shall be consistent with
the County Emergency Operations Plan and the National Incident Management
System and in the event of such a disaster as described in §
32.32 of this subchapter it shall be the duty of the Emergency Management
Agency to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of such mutual
aid arrangements.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management may, subject to the approval of
the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency, assist in the
negotiation of mutual aid agreements between this and other states.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.36  IMMUNITY.
   The county, except in cases of negligence or willful misconduct, and its
agents, employees or representatives engaged in any emergency management
response or recovery activities, while complying with, or attempting to comply
with, this subchapter, the IEMA Act or any rule or regulations promulgated
pursuant to the IEMA Act, is not liable for the death of, or any injury to,
persons or damage to property as a result of such activity. This section does
not, however, affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or
she would otherwise be entitled under this subchapter under the Workers’
Compensation Act or the Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act or under any pension
law and this section does not affect the right of any such person to receive
any benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.37  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   (A)   Whenever the federal government, or any agency or officer thereof, or
whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the county services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds by the way of gift or grant, for
purposes of emergency management, the county, acting through the chief elected
official, may accept such offer and, upon such acceptance, may authorize the
Director of Emergency Management to receive such services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds on behalf of the county.
   (B)   The county, acting through the chief elected official, shall have the
authority to establish a special fund if needed to accept such gifts, grants or
loans. The establishment of such a special fund shall be in accordance with all
county ordinances relating to this subject matter and the laws of the state.
All services, gifts, grants or loans accepted pursuant to the section shall be
subject to county auditing procedures.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.38  ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The County Board shall have the authority to promulgate orders, rules
and regulations, upon the advice of the Director of Emergency Management, for
the purpose of emergency management and in times of disaster.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency shall execute and enforce such orders,
rules and regulations as may be made by the Governor under the authority of the
Act.
   (C)   The Emergency Management Agency shall have available for inspection at
its office all orders, rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under the
Governor’s authority, and which have been provided by the State Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.39  EXISTING AGENCY; UTILIZATION.
   The Emergency Management Agency, acting through the chief elected official,
may utilize the services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing
departments, offices and agencies within its jurisdiction the maximum extent
practicable and the officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and
agencies are directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services
and facilities as may be needed.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.40  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Emergency Management
Agency shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath which shall be filed with the Director of Emergency Management:
   “I, (Name) , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the United States and
the constitution of the State of Illinois and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time I am
affiliated with County EMA, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence”.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.41  NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily, and without compensation, grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster or a disaster training exercise, together with his
or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for
negligently causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such
real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission or
for negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of the county under the provisions of the IEMA Act or this
subchapter, shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of, or injury to,
any person or damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
   (C)   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agent of
such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the county under the Act during an actual or impending disaster,
shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of, or injury to, any person
or damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.42  PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   The Emergency Management Agency, as established by this subchapter, shall
not be employed directly or indirectly by any person for political purposes.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 32.43  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derive shall be
in force from and after its passage and approval, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-21-2011)
EMERGENCY 9-1-1 SERVICE
§ 32.55  EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Surcharge. A surcharge on all telecommunication carriers engaged in
the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity within the
corporate limits of the county, excluding the incorporated municipalities of
Benton and West City, is established at $1.50 per month per network connection.
This surcharge shall be pursuant to the various terms established in this
section and shall commence being collected as soon as the Emergency Telephone
System Board determines is practical.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENHANCED 9-1-1 or E-9-1-1. A basic system with the additional capability
of automatic identification of the caller’s number, holding the incoming call,
reconnection on the same telephone line, clearing a telephone line or automatic
call routing or any other capability or features then available or combinations
of such capabilities
      SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of the subscriber’s primary use of the
network connection or connections.
   (C)   Network connection; 9-1-1 system.
      (1)   For purposes of computing the surcharge imposed by division (A)
above, the network connection to which the surcharge shall apply shall be those
in-service network connections located within the county.
      (2)   A 9-1-1 system which includes the ability to identify caller’s
phone and address and the ability to selectively route phone calls to emergency
services are exempt from the surcharge imposed by this section.
   (D)   Payment. The amount of surcharge due and owing shall be paid to the
County Treasurer not later than 30 days after the surcharge liability accrues,
net of any network or other 9-1-1 or sophisticated 9-1-1 system charges then
due the particular telecommunications carrier, as shown on an itemized bill.
   (E)   Emergency Telephone System Board.
      (1)   There is hereby created an Emergency Telephone System Board,
consisting of seven members who shall be appointed by the County Chairperson.
Said Board shall consist as follows:
         (a)   One member who may be a public member and who is a resident of
the local exchange service territory included in the 9-1-1 coverage area; and
         (b)   One of whom may be a member of the County Board and at least
three of whom shall be representative of the 9-1-1 public safety agencies,
including, but not limited to, police departments, fire departments, emergency
medical service and disaster agencies and appointed on the basis of his or her
ability or experience.
      (2)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be
reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses. The powers and duties of
the Emergency Telephone System Board shall be as follows:
         (a)   Planning a 9-1-1 system;
         (b)   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding systems;
         (c)   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed under division (A)
above and from any other source for deposit into the Emergency Telephone System
Fund;
         (d)   Authorizing all disbursements from the Emergency Telephone
System Fund;
         (e)   Hiring any staff necessary for the implementation or upgrade of
the system;
         (f)   Be the authoritative body over the 9-1-1 system, making all
decisions necessary for the operation of the system;
         (g)   Be the authoritative body over the advisory committee;
         (h)   The authority to name or re-name the streets and roads in
unincorporated areas of the county; and
         (i)   To address homes, buildings and other structures in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
      (3)   There is hereby created an Emergency Telephone System Board
consisting of seven members who shall be appointed by the County Chairperson.
Said members shall serve for three-year terms except for the first Board of
which three shall serve for three years, two for two years and two for one
year.
      (4)   The first Board shall determine who shall serve for which terms by
lottery. Terms of office shall begin on April 1 of each year.
   (F)   Emergency Telephone System Fund. All monies received pursuant to the
surcharge imposed under division (A) above shall be deposited into an Emergency
Telephone System Fund. The County Treasurer shall be custodian of the Fund. All
interest accruing on the Fund shall remain in the Fund. No expenditures may be
made from such Fund except upon the direction of the Emergency Telephone System
Board or by resolution passed by a majority of all members of that Board.
Expenditures may be made only to pay for the cost associated with the
following:
      (1)   The design of the Emergency Telephone System;
      (2)    The coding of an initial master street address guide data base and
update and maintenance thereof;
      (3)   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the
system;
      (4)   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification equipment and maintenance, replacement and update
thereof;
      (5)   The non-recurring charges related to installation of the Emergency
Telephone System and the ongoing network charges; and
      (6)   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
upgrade, maintenance and operation of the system, including costs attributable
directly to the construction, leasing or maintenance of any buildings or
facilities or costs of personnel attributable directly to the operation of the
system.
   (G)   Effective date. The ordinance from which the provisions of this
section derive shall be in full force and effect on the first day of the month
following its approval by a majority of the electors voting thereon.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992; Ord. 1992-3, passed 4-21-1992; Ord.1994-10,
passed 12-20-1994)
§ 32.56  DISPLAY OF 9-1-1 EMERGENCY SYSTEM NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Designation of street numbers.
      (1)   Street numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all
public and private streets shall be assigned by the 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone
System Board in accordance with the procedures adopted by the county.
      (2)   The 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone System Board shall keep a record of
all numbers assigned under this section.
   (B)   Posting of designated street address.
      (1)   The owner or occupant, or person in charge of any dwelling or
building to which a number has been assigned, will be notified by the 9-1-
1 Emergency Telephone System Board of the number assigned to the same at any
time after the adoption of this section.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the receipt of such notification from the 9-1-
1 Emergency Telephone System Board, the owner or occupant, or person in charge
of a house or building to which a number has been assigned, shall affix the
number to the structure if visible from the road, or to a sign or number post
if not visible from the road, in such a way that the numbers can be clearly
seen from the roadway.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of such owner or occupant or person in charge
thereof, upon affixing the new number to remove any different number which
might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned to said structure
by the 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone System Board.
      (4)   Each principal building shall display the number assigned to the
frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building
is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate
front entrance or family dwelling unit shall display a separate number or
letter designation.
      (5)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal
building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as
to be legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is
located with letters painted or applied of a contrasting color to the
background of not less than three inches in height. If a building or dwelling
is situated in such a way that the numbers cannot be easily seen from the
roadway in front of said structure, then a sign or number post must be used in
front of the structure and placed in such a way that it can be easily seen from
the roadway.
   (C)   Effective date. The ordinance from which the provisions of this
section derive shall take effect and be in full force and effect 30 days from
after its passage.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992; Ord. 1996-03, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or occupant or person in charge of any
house or building refuses to comply with the terms of §
32.56 by failing to affix the number assigned within 60 days after notification
or by failing within said period of 60 days to remove any old numbers affixed
to such house or house entrance or elsewhere which may be confused with the
number assigned thereto, he or she shall be punished by paying a fine of not
more than $500.
   (C)   The County State’s Attorney may bring an action in the name of the
county to restrain or prevent a violation of any provision of §
32.56 or to otherwise enforce the provisions of §
32.56.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992; Ord. 1996-03, passed 6-18-1996)
CHAPTER 33:  FEES
Section
   
33.01   Licenses and certificates
   
33.02   Law enforcement; inmates; fees
   
33.03   Circuit Court Clerk; fees
   
33.04   State Vehicle Code violations; fees
   
33.05   Drug Court; fees
   
33.06   Court security expenses
   
33.07   Youth Diversion Program; fees
   
33.08   Circuit Clerk’s Document and Storage Fund; fee
   
33.09   Circuit Clerk’s Automation Fund; fee
   
33.10   Cyber Crimes Fund; fee
   
33.11   Recorder of deeds; G.I.S. Fund; fee
   
33.12   Court Appointed Special Advocates; Special Revenue Fund; fee
   
33.13   Arrestee’s Medical Cost Fund; fee
§ 33.01  LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES.
License or Certificate Fees Ord. or Res. No. Date Passed
License or Certificate                      Fees Ord. or Res. No. Date Passed
Birth certificate (first certified copy)    $15  Ord. 2005-01     3-22-2005
Civil union license                         $30  Ord. 2011-01     5-17-2011
Death certificate (first certified copy)    $17  Ord. 2005-01     3-22-2005
Marriage certificate (first certified copy) $15  Ord. 2005-01     3-22-2005
Marriage license                            $30  Ord. 2008-03     5-20-2008
Recording of deeds; base fee                $18  Ord. 2005-01     3-22-2005
(first certified copy)
Total for recording (base plus $3 recording $31  Ord. 2005-01     3-22-2005
automation fee, plus $10 G.I.S. fee)
 
§ 33.02  LAW ENFORCEMENT; INMATES; FEES.
 
Service                                        Fee   Ord. or Res. Date Passed
                                                     No.
County Sheriff’s Department civil processing $50   Ord. 2011-07 11-22-2011
fee
County Sheriff’s Department per mile charge  $0.50 Ord. 2011-07 11-22-2011
Gainfully employed offenders’ board fee; per $12   Res. 1997-66 6-17-1997
day
Inmate processing fees                         $20   Ord. 2011-08 11-22-2011
 
§ 33.03  CIRCUIT COURT CLERK; FEES.
   (A)   Civil cases.
      (1)   General fee. The fee for filing a complaint, petition or other
pleading initiating a civil action, with the following exceptions, shall be
$160.
      (2)   Exceptions.
 
Exceptions                                                              Fee
When the amount of money, or damages or the value of personal property  $10
claimed, does not exceed $250
When the amount of money or damages or the value of personal property   $20
exceeds $250 but does not exceed $500
When the amount of money or damages or the value of personal property   $40
exceeds $500 but does not exceed $2,500
When the amount of money or damages or the value of personal property   $50
exceeds $2,500 but does not exceed $15,000
For the exercise of eminent domain                                      $150
For each additional lot or tract of land, or right or interest therein,
subject to be condemned, the damages in respect to which shall require  $150
separate assessment by a jury
 
   (B)   Family.
 
Petition or Service                                                      Fee
For filing a petition under 705 ILCS 405, the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 $25
For filing a petition for a marriage license                             $10
For performing a marriage in court                                       $10
For filing a petition under the 705 ILCS 45, State Parentage Act of 1984 $40
 
   (C)   Forcible entry and detainer.
 
Condition                                                                 Fee
Plaintiff seeks possession only or unites with his or her claim for
possession of the property a claim for rent or damages, or both, in the   $50
amount of $15,000 or less
Plaintiff unites his or her claim for possession with a claim for rent or $160
damages, or both, exceeding $15,000
 
   (D)   Counterclaim or joining third -party defendant. When any defendant
files a counterclaim as part of his or her answer or otherwise or joins another
party as a third-party defendant, or both, the defendant shall pay a fee for
each counterclaim or third-party action in an amount equal to the fee he or she
would have had to pay had he or she brought a separate action for the relief
sought in the counterclaim or against the third-party defendant, less the
amount of the appearance fee, if that has been paid.
   (E)   Confession of judgment.
 
Condition                                          Fee
Amount does not exceed $1,500                      $50
Amount exceeds $1,500, but does not exceed $15,000 $115
Amount exceeds $15,000                             $200
 
   (F)   Appearance. The fee for filing an appearance in each civil case shall
be $60, except as follows.
 
Exception                                                                 Fee
When the plaintiff in a forcible entry and detainer case seeks possession $50
only
When the amount in the case does not exceed $1,500                        $30
When that amount exceeds $1,500 but does not exceed $15,000               $60
 
   (G)   Garnishment, wage deduction and citation.
 
Condition                                                 Fee
When the amount does not exceed $1,000                    $10
When the amount exceeds $1,000 but does not exceed $5,000 $30
When the amount exceeds $5,000                            $50
 
   (H)   Petition to vacate or modify.
 
Condition                                                                   Fee
Petition to vacate or modify any final judgment or order of court, except
in forcible entry and detainer cases and small claims cases or a petition
to reopen an estate, to modify, terminate or enforce a judgment or order    $50
for child or spousal support or to modify, suspend or terminate an order
for withholding, if filed before 30 days after the entry of the judgment or
order
Petition to vacate or modify any final judgment or order of court, except a
petition to modify, terminate or enforce a judgment or order for child or
spousal support or to modify, suspend or terminate an order for             $75
withholding, if filed later than 30 days after the entry of the judgment or
order
Petition to vacate order of bond forfeiture                                 $40
 
   (I)   Mailing. When the Circuit Clerk is required to mail, the fee shall be
$10 plus the cost of postage.
   (J)   Certified copies. Each certified copy of a judgment after the first,
except in small claims and forcible entry and detainer cases, shall be $10.
   (K)   Habeas corpus. For filing a petition for relief by habeas corpus, the
fee shall be $60.
   (L)   Certification, authentication and reproduction.
Service Fee
Service                                                                          Fee
Each certification or authentication for taking the acknowledgment of a deed or  $5
other instrument in writing with the seal of office
Court appeals when original documents are forwarded and under 100 pages; plus    $60
delivery and costs
Court appeals when original documents are forwarded and over 100 pages; plus     $150
delivery and costs
Court appeals when original documents are forwarded and over 200 pages; plus     $0.25
additional fee                                                                   per
                                                                                 page
For reproduction of any document contained in the Circuit Clerk’s files; first $1
page                                                                             per
                                                                                 page
For reproduction of any document contained in the Circuit Clerk’s files; next 1$0.50
pages                                                                            per
                                                                                 page
For reproduction of any document contained in the Circuit Clerk’s files; all   $0.25
remaining pages                                                                  per
                                                                                 page
 
   (M)   Remands. In any case remanded to the Circuit Court from the Supreme
Court or the Appellate Court for a new trial, the Circuit Clerk shall file the
remanding order and reinstate the case with either its original number or a new
number. The Circuit Clerk shall not charge any new or additional fee for the
reinstatement. Upon reinstatement, the Circuit Clerk shall advise the parties
of the reinstatement. A party shall have the same right to a jury trial on
remand and reinstatement as he or she had before the appeal and no additional
or new fee or charge shall be made for a jury trial after remand.
   (N)   Record search. For each record search within a division or municipal
district, the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to a search fee of $6 for each
year searched.
   (O)   Hard-copy. For each page of hard-copy print output, when case records
are maintained on an automated medium, the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to a
fee of $6 per page.
   (P)   Index inquiry and other records. No fee shall be charged for a single
plaintiff/defendant index inquiry or single case record inquiry when this
request is made in person and the records are maintained in a current automated
medium and when no hard-copy print output is requested. The fees to be charged
for management records, multiple case records and multiple journal records may
be specified by the Chief Judge pursuant to the guidelines for access and
dissemination of information approved by the Supreme Court.
   (Q)   Alias summons. For each alias summons or citation issued by the
Circuit Clerk, the fee shall be $5.
   (R)   Other fees.
      (1)   Any fees not covered in this section shall be set by rule or
administrative order of the Circuit Court with the approval of the
Administrative Office of the State Courts.
      (2)   The Circuit Clerk may provide additional services for which there
is no fee specified by statute in connection with the operation of the Circuit
Clerk’s office as may be requested by the public and agreed to by the Circuit
Clerk and approved by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court. Any charges for
additional services shall be as agreed to between the Circuit Clerk and the
party making the request and approved by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court.
Nothing in this division (R) shall be construed to require any clerk to provide
any service not otherwise required by law.
   (S)   Jury services. The Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to receive, in
addition to other fees allowed by law, the sum of $106.25 for a six-person jury
and $212.50 for a 12-person jury as a fee for the services of a jury in every
civil action not quasi-criminal in its nature and not a proceeding for the
exercise of the right of eminent domain and in every other action wherein the
right of trial by jury is, or may be, given by law. The jury fee shall be paid
by the party demanding a jury at the time of filing the jury demand. If the fee
is not paid by either party, no jury shall be called in action or proceeding
and the same shall be tried in the court without a jury.
   (T)   Voluntary assignment.
      (1)   For filing each deed of voluntary assignment, the fee shall be $10.
For recording the same, the fee shall be $0.25 for each 100 words.
      (2)   Exceptions filed to claims presented to an assignee of a debtor who
has made a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors shall be
considered and treated, for the purpose of taxing costs therein, as actions in
which the party or parties filing the exceptions shall be considered as party
or parties plaintiff, and the claimant or claimants as party or parties
defendant, and those parties respectively shall pay to the Circuit Clerk the
same fees as provided by this division (T) to be paid in other actions.
   (U)   Expungement petition. The Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to receive a
fee of $60 for each expungement petition filed and an additional fee of $4 for
each certified copy of an order to expunge arrest records.
   (V)   Probate.
      (1)   The Circuit Clerk is entitled to receive the fees specified in this
division (V), which shall be paid in advance, except that, for good cause
shown, the court may suspend, reduce or release the costs payable under this
division (V).
      (2)   For administration of the estate of a decedent, whether testate or
intestate, or of a missing person, the fee shall be $150, plus the fees
specified in division (V)(4) below, except:
         (a)   When the value of the real and personal property does not exceed
$15,000, the fee shall be $40;
         (b)   When proof of heirship alone is made, a domestic or foreign will
is admitted to probate without administration, including proof of heirship, or
letters of office are issued for a particular purpose without administration of
the estate, the fee shall be $40; or
         (c)   For filing a petition to sell real estate, the fee shall be $50.
      (3)   For administration of the estate of a ward, the fee shall be $75
plus the fees specified in division (V)(4) below, except:
         (a)   When the value of the real and personal property does not exceed
$15,000, the fee shall be $40;
         (b)   When letters of office are issued to a guardian of the person or
persons, but not of the estate, or letters of office are issued in the estate
of a ward without administration of the estate, including filing, or joining in
the filing, of a tax return or releasing a mortgage or consenting to the
marriage of the ward, the fee shall be $20; or
         (c)   For filing a petition to sell real estate, the fee shall be $50.
      (4)   In addition to the fees payable under divisions (V)(2) or (V)(3)
above, the following fees are payable.
         (a)   For each account, other than the final account, filed in the
estate of a decedent or ward, the fee shall be $10.
         (b)   1.   For filing a claim in an estate when the amount claimed is
$150 or more, but less than $500, the fee shall be $10.
            2.   When the amount claimed is $500 or more, but less than
$10,000, the fee shall be $10.
            3.   When the amount claimed is $10,000 or more, the fee shall be
$10; provided, that the Court, in allowing a claim, may add to the amount
allowed the filing fee paid by the claimant.
         (c)   For filing in an estate a claim, petition or supplemental
proceeding based upon an action seeking equitable relief including the
construction or contest of a will, enforcement of a contract to make a will and
proceedings involving testamentary trusts or the appointment of testamentary
trustees, the fee shall be $40.
         (d)   For filing in an estate the appearance of any person for the
purpose of consent or the appearance of an executor, administrator,
administrator to collect, guardian, guardian ad litem or special administrator,
there is no fee.
         (e)   Except as provided in division (V)(4)(d) above, for filing the
appearance of any person or persons, the fee shall be $30.
         (f)   For each jury demand, the fee shall be $137.50.
         (g)   For disposition of the collection of a judgment or settlement of
an action or claim for wrongful death of a decedent or of any cause of action
of a ward, when there is no other administration of the estate, the fee shall
be $35 less any amount paid under divisions (V)(2)(b) or (V)(3)(b) above except
that if the amount involved does not exceed $5,000, the fee, including any
amount paid under divisions(V)(2)(b) or (V)(3)(b) above, shall be $10.
         (h)   For each certified copy of letters of office, of court order or
other certification, the fee shall be $2 plus $0.50 per page in excess of three
pages for the document certified.
         (i)   For each exemplification, the fee shall be $2 plus the fee for
certification.
      (4)   The executor, administrator, guardian, petitioner or other
interested person, or his or her attorney, shall pay the cost of publication by
the Circuit Clerk directly to the newspaper.
      (5)   The person on whose behalf a charge is incurred for witness, court
reporter, appraiser or other miscellaneous fee shall pay the same directly to
the person entitled thereto.
      (6)   The executor, administrator, guardian, petitioner or other
interested person, or his or her attorney, shall pay to the Circuit Clerk all
postage charges incurred by the Circuit Clerk in mailing petitions, orders,
notices or other documents pursuant to the provisions of 755 ILCS 5, the
Probate Act of 1975.
   (W)   Criminal and quasi-criminal costs and fees.
      (1)   The Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to costs in all criminal and
quasi-criminal cases from each person convicted or sentenced to supervision
therein as follows.
Criminal and Quasi-Criminal Cases Fee
Criminal and Quasi-Criminal Cases                                                    Fee
Business offense complaints                                                          $25
Felony complaints                                                                    $60
Minor traffic or ordinance violations                                                $10
Misdemeanor complaints                                                               $40
Motions to vacate bond forfeiture orders                                             $40
Motions to vacate ex parte judgments whenever filed                                  $40
Motions to vacate “failure to appear” or “failure to comply” notices sent to $40
Secretary of State
Motions to vacate judgment on forfeitures whenever filed                             $40
Motions to vacate or amend final orders                                              $40
Petty offense complaints                                                             $25
When court is appearance required                                                    $15
 
      (2)   In counties having a population of not more than 500,000
inhabitants, when the violation complaint is issued by a municipal police
department, the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to costs from each person
convicted therein as follows.
 
Violation and/or Required Appearance  Fee
Minor traffic or ordinance violations $10
When court appearance is required     $15
 
      (3)   (a)   In ordinance violation cases punishable by fine only, the
Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to receive, unless the fee is excused upon a
finding by the court that the defendant is indigent, in addition to other fees
or costs allowed or imposed by law, the sum of $137.50 as a fee for the
services of a jury. The jury fee shall be paid by the defendant at the time of
filing his or her jury demand.
         (b)   If the fee is not so paid by the defendant, no jury shall be
called and the case shall be tried by the court without a jury.
   (X)   Transcripts of judgement. For the filing of a transcript of judgment,
the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to the same fee as if it were the
commencement of a new suit.
   (Y)   Change of venue.
      (1)   For the filing of a change of case on a change of venue, the
Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to the same fee as if it were the commencement
of a new suit.
      (2)   The fee for the preparation and certification of a record on a
change of venue to another jurisdiction, when original documents are forwarded,
shall be $40.
   (Z)   Tax objection complaints. For each tax objection complaint containing
one or more tax objections, regardless of the number of parcels involved or the
number of taxpayers joining on the complaint, the fee shall be $35.
   (AA)   Tax deeds.
 
Petition for Tax Deed; Number of Parcels Fee
If only one parcel is involved           $200
For each additional parcel               $60
 
   (BB)   Collections.
      (1)   For all collections made of others, except the state and county and
except in maintenance or child support cases, a sum equal to 2.5% of the amount
collected and turned over.
      (2)   Interest earned on any funds held by the Circuit Clerk shall be
turned over to the County General Fund as an earning of the office.
      (3)   For any check, draft or other bank instrument returned to the
Circuit Clerk for non-sufficient funds, account closed or payment stopped, the
fee shall be $25.
      (4)   (a)   In child support and maintenance cases, the Circuit Clerk, if
authorized by an ordinance of the County Board, may collect an annual fee of up
to $36 from the person making payments for maintaining child support records
and the processing of support orders to the State KIDS system and the recording
of payments issued by the State Disbursement Unit for the official record of
the court.
         (b)   This fee shall be in addition to, and separate from, amounts
ordered to be paid as maintenance or child support and shall be deposited into
a separate maintenance and child support collection fund, of which the Circuit
Clerk shall be the custodian, ex-officio, to be used by the Circuit Clerk to
maintain child support orders and record all payments issued by the State
Disbursement Unit for the official record of the court.
         (c)   The Circuit Clerk may recover from the person making the
maintenance or child support payment any additional cost incurred in the
collection of this annual fee.
      (5)   The Circuit Clerk shall also be entitled to a fee of $5 for
certifications made to the Secretary of State as provided in § 7-703 of the
Family Financial Responsibility Law (625 ILCS 5/7-703) and these fees shall
also be deposited into the separate maintenance and child support collection
fund.
   (CC)   Corrections of numbers. For correction of the case number, case title
or attorney computer identification number, if required by rule of court on any
document filed in the Circuit Clerk’s office to be charged against the party
that filed the document, the fee shall be $10.
   (DD)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The fee requirements of this section shall not apply to police
departments or other law enforcement agencies. In this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCY means an agency of the state or a unit of local government which is
vested by law or ordinance with the duty to maintain public order and to
enforce criminal laws or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY also means the
Attorney General or any state’s attorney.
      (2)   No fee provided herein shall be charged to any unit of local
government or school district.
      (3)   The fee requirements of this section shall not apply to any action
instituted under subsection (b) of § 11-31-1 of the State Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/11-31-1) by a private owner or tenant of real property within 1,200 feet
of a dangerous or unsafe building seeking an order compelling the owner or
owners of the building to take any of the actions authorized under that
subsection.
      (4)   The fee requirements of this section shall not apply to the filling
of any commitment petition or petition for an order authorizing the
administration of psychotropic medication or electroconvulsive therapy under
the Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code.
   (EE)   Adoptions.
      (1)   For an adoption, the fee shall be $65.
      (2)   Upon good cause shown, the court may waive the adoption filing fee
in a special needs adoption. The term SPECIAL NEEDS ADOPTION shall have the
meaning ascribed to it by the State Department of Children and Family Services.
   (FF)   Adoption exemptions. No fee, other than that set forth in division
(EE) above, shall be charged to any person in connection with an adoption
proceeding.
   (GG)   Fee collection.
      (1)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 105/27.1a, the County Board has determined it
is in the best interest of the county that the fees set forth herein shall be
charged and collected by the Circuit Clerk.
      (2)   Said fees shall be collected in the manner which all other fees or
costs are collected and shall be remitted monthly to the County Treasurer for
deposit.
      (3)   The County Clerk shall file a certified copy of the resolution from
which the provisions of this section derive in the office of the Circuit Clerk
as written notice that the County Board has acted to establish charges and
collection of such fees. The Circuit Clerk shall file and maintain a copy of
said resolution in his or her office.
   (HH)   Effective date. The resolution from which the provisions of the
section derive shall become effective January 1, 2010 and shall remain in
effect until modified by the County Board.
(Res. 2009-55, passed 12-22-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions; required minimum and maximum fees, see 705 ILCS 105/
27.1a
§ 33.04  STATE VEHICLE CODE VIOLATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5-1101(a), a $5 fee is to be paid by the defendant
on a judgment of guilty or a grant of supervision for a violation of 625 ILCS
5, the State Vehicle Code, other than 625 ILCS 5/11-501, or violations of
similar provisions contained in county or municipal ordinances committed, and a
$30 fee is to be paid by the defendant on a judgment of guilty or a grant of
supervision for violation of § 11-501 of the State Vehicle Code or a violation
of a similar provision contained in county or municipal ordinances committed in
the county.
   (B)   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5-1101(c), a fee is to be paid by the defendant on
a judgment of guilty or grant of supervision under 730 ILCS 5/5-9-1, as
follows.
 
Offense                              Fee
For a felony                         $50
For a Class A misdemeanor            $25
For a Class B or Class C misdemeanor $15
For a petty offense                  $10
For a business offense               $10
 
   (C)   The proceeds of all fees enacted pursuant to this section shall be
placed in the County General Fund and used to finance the court system in the
county unless the fee is subject to disbursement by the Circuit Clerk, as
provided by 705 ILCS 105/27.5.
   (D)   The resolution from which the provisions of this section derive shall
become effective upon its approval and passage, as provided by law.
(Res. 99-33, passed 6-22-1999)
§ 33.05  DRUG COURT; FEES.
   (A)   A mandatory fee of $5 is hereby established and assessed pursuant to
55 ILCS 5-1101(f) and the assessments collected by the Circuit Clerk pursuant
to statute and this resolution shall be deposited into an account maintained by
the County Treasurer specifically for the operation and administration of the
Drug Court.
   (B)   The Circuit Clerk shall collect the fees to the Drug Court Program
monthly, less 5%, which is to be retained into the Circuit Clerk Operation and
Administrative Fund.
   (C)   The fees collected are to be paid as follows:
      (1)   A fee of up to $5 paid by the defendant of a judgment of guilty or
grant of supervision for violation of the State Vehicle Code or violations of
similar provisions contained in county or municipal ordinances committed in the
county that require a court appearance; and
      (2)   A fee of up to $5 paid by the defendant on a judgment of guilty or
grant of supervision under § 5-9-1 of the Unified Code of Corrections for a
felony, for a Class A, Class B or Class C misdemeanor, for a petty offense and
for a business offense that requires a court appearance.
   (D)   The effective date of the resolution from which the provisions of this
section derive shall be April 15, 2012.
(Res. 2012-16, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 33.06  COURT SECURITY EXPENSES.
   (A)   The County Board elects to establish a court services fund for the
purposes of defraying court security expenses incurred by the County Sheriff in
providing court services, and the Circuit Clerk shall, upon receipt of written
notice from the County Chairperson of County Board, together with a certified
copy of the resolution from which the provisions of this resolution derive, for
filing in his or her office, commence to collect court service fees at the rate
of $25 for all cases.
   (B)   Said fees shall be in addition to all other fees and charges collected
by the Circuit Clerk and assessed as costs and shall be remitted monthly by the
Circuit Clerk to the County Treasurer, to be deposited in a special fund as
part of the County General Fund for payment solely of costs incurred by the
County Sheriff in providing court security.
   (C)   Said fund shall be audited by the county accountants and the County
Board shall make expenditure from the fund in payment of court security
expenses incurred by the County Sheriff in providing court services.
   (D)   The effective date of the resolution from which the provisions of this
section derive is January 1, 2010.
(Res. 2009-52, passed 12-22-2009)
§ 33.07  YOUTH DIVERSION PROGRAM; FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-1101(e), the county has established a teen
court, peer court, peer jury, youth court or other youth diversion program.
   (B)   The County Board does hereby adopt a mandatory fee of up to $5 to be
assessed as follows:
      (1)   A fee of up to $5 paid by the defendant on a judgment of guilty, or
grant of supervision, for violation of 625 ILCS 5, the State Vehicle Code or
violations of similar provisions contained in county or municipal ordinances
committed in the county; and
      (2)   A fee of up to $5 paid by the defendant on a judgment of guilty, or
grant of supervision, under § 5-9-1 of the Unified Code of Corrections, 730
ILCS 5/5-9-1, for a felony, for a Class A, Class B or Class C misdemeanor, for
a petty offense and for a business offense.
   (C)   Assessments collected by the Circuit Clerk, pursuant to this section,
must be deposited into an account specifically for the operation and
administration of a teen court, peer court, peer jury, youth court or youth
diversion program.
   (D)   The Circuit Clerk shall collect the fees established in this section
and must remit the fees to the teen court, peer court, peer jury, youth court
or other youth diversion program monthly, less 5%, which is to be retained as
fee income to the office of the Circuit Clerk.
   (E)   The resolution from which the provisions of this section derive shall
be effective September 21, 2004.
(Res. 2004-62, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 33.08  CIRCUIT CLERK’S DOCUMENT AND STORAGE FUND; FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 105/27.3a, amended June 1, 2014, the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall charge and collect a Circuit Clerk’s Court Document Storage
Fund fee in the amount of $25 for the first pleading, paper or other appearance
filed by each party in all civil cases. This Circuit Clerk’s Court Document
Storage Fund fee shall be in addition to any other fees and costs assessed by
the Circuit Clerk, in these cases.  In addition, no additional fee shall be
required if more than one party is presented in a single pleading, paper or
other appearance.  Such fee shall be collected in the manner in which all other
fees or costs are collected.
   (B)   All court document storage fees collected by the Circuit Clerk shall
be deposited in a special fund known as the “Circuit Clerk’s Court Document
Storage Fund” and such funds accumulated by this fee will be expended only for
the purpose of court document storage of the Circuit Clerk.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall file a certified copy of this section in the
office of the Circuit Clerk, as written notice that the County Board has
approved and acted to amend the Circuit Clerk’s Court Document Storage Fund fee
in civil cases to $25.  The Circuit Clerk shall amend and commence such charges
and collections upon receipt of this written notice and certified copy of this
section. The County Circuit Clerk shall file and maintain a certified copy of
this section in his or her office.
   (D)   Said fund shall be audited by the County Auditor, and the County Board
shall make expenditure from the fund in payment of any cost related to the
court document storage of the court records, including hardware, software,
research and development costs and personnel related thereto, provided that the
expenditure is approved by the County Circuit Clerk and by the Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court or his or her designate.
   (E)   Such fees shall not be charged in any matter coming to any such clerk
on change of venue, nor in any proceeding to review the decision of any
administrative officer, agency or body.
   (F)   This section shall become effective December 1, 2014, and shall remain
in effect until modified by the County Board.
(Res. 2014-28, passed 11-28-2014)
§ 33.09  CIRCUIT CLERK’S AUTOMATION FUND; FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 705 ILCS 105/27.3a, amended June 1, 2014, the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall charge and collect a Circuit Clerk’s Automation Fund fee in
the amount of $25 for the first pleading, paper or other appearance filed by
each party in all civil cases. This Circuit Clerk’s Automation Fund fee shall
be in addition to any other fees and costs assessed by the Circuit Clerk, in
these cases.  In addition, no additional fee shall be required if more than one
party is presented in a single pleading, paper or other appearance.  Such fee
shall be collected in the manner in which all other fees or costs are
collected.
   (B)   All automation fees collected by the Circuit Clerk shall be deposited
in a special fund known as the “Circuit Clerk’s Automation Fund” and such funds
accumulated by this fee will be expended only for the purpose of automating the
record keeping system of the County Circuit Clerk.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall file a certified copy of this section in the
office of the Circuit Clerk, as written notice that the County Board has
approved and acted to amend the Circuit Clerk’s Automation Fund fee in civil
cases to $25.  The Circuit Clerk shall amend and commence such charges and
collections upon receipt of this written notice and certified copy of this
section. The County Circuit Clerk shall file and maintain a certified copy of
this resolution in his or her office.
   (D)   Said fund shall be audited by the County Auditor, and the County Board
shall make expenditure from the fund in payment of any cost related to the
automation of the court records, including hardware, software, research and
development costs and personnel related thereto, provided that the expenditure
is approved by the County Circuit Clerk and by the Chief Judge of the Circuit
Court or his or her designate.
   (E)   Such fees shall not be charged in any matter coming to any such clerk
on change of venue, nor in any proceeding to review the decision of any
administrative officer, agency or body.
   (F)   This section shall become effective December 1, 2014, and shall remain
in effect until modified by the County Board.
(Res. 2014-27, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 33.10  CYBER CRIMES FUND; FEE.
   (A)   The County Board hereby establishes the County Sheriff’s Department
Cyber Crimes Fund, a local anti-crime fund, within the meaning of 20 ILCS 3910/
7 in accordance with the Cyber Crimes Plan created by the County Sheriff.
   (B)   All monies contributed to said County Sheriff’s Department Cyber
Crimes Fund shall be deposited by the County Treasurer in an account and shall
only be distributed for services, compensation or equipment upon approval by
the County Board after submission of a claim or by other procedure as approved
by the County Board.
(Res. 2012-18, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 33.11  RECORDER OF DEEDS; G.I.S. FUND; FEE.
   Effective July 1, 2010, the fee of $10 shall be increased by $10 for a total
charge of $20 for the filing of every instrument, paper or notice of record,
and such fees collected shall be deposited into the Recorder’s G.I.S./Recording
Fund No. 59 to be disbursed according to the law for advancement of the county-
wide G.I.S. system.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 33.12  COURT APPOINTED SPECIAL ADVOCATES; SPECIAL REVENUE FUND; FEE.
   Effective December 1, 2013, a fee of $20 shall be assessed on and paid by
the defendants as prescribed in the language of 55 ILCS 5/5-1101, and a
separate Special Revenue Fund will be established by the county for the purpose
of fiscal management of the deposit and disbursement of collected fees.
(Res. 2013-60, passed 12-1-2013)
§ 33.13  ARRESTEE’S MEDICAL COST FUND; FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the county a fund known as the
Arrestee’s Medical Costs Fund. Monies in the Fund shall be used solely for
reimbursement of costs for medical expenses relating to arrestees and
administration of the Fund.
   (B)   There is hereby established a $10 fee for each conviction or order of
supervision for a criminal violation, other than a petty or business offense.
The fee shall be taxed as costs to be collected from a defendant upon
conviction or entry of an order of supervision. Said fee shall not be
considered a part of the fine for purposes of any reduction in the fine.
   (C)   When medical or hospital services are required by any person held in
custody the county, or the arresting authority shall be entitled to obtain
reimbursement from the Arrestee’s Medical Costs Fund to the extent monies are
available from the Fund. To the extent that the person is reasonably able to
pay for that care, including reimbursement from any insurance program or from
other medical benefits available to the person, he or she shall reimburse the
county.
   (D)   No provision of the resolution from which the provisions of this
section derive shall prohibit the State’s Attorney, if requested by the County
Board, from instituting civil actions to recover from such convicted confined
persons the expenses incurred by his or her confinement.
   (E)   The resolution from which the provisions of this section derive is
effective upon its passage by the County Board.
(Res. 1996-214, passed 12-17-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions; maximum fee, see 730 ILCS 125/17
CHAPTER 34:  TAXATION AND FINANCES
Section
Taxation
   
34.01   Advanced registration
   
34.02   Uniform real estate transfer tax
   
34.03   Collection of late payment interest on real estate taxes
   
34.04   County tax sale; registration period
Hotel Operators’ Tax
   
34.15   Tax; renting, leasing or letting hotel or motel rooms
   
34.16   Hotel operators’ tax; revenues
 
   
34.99   Penalty
TAXATION
§ 34.01  ADVANCED REGISTRATION.
   There shall be no advanced registration required for the County Collector’s
sale of delinquent taxes.
(Res. 1994-29, passed 10-18-1994)
§ 34.02  UNIFORM REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX.
   Effective June 1, 2005, and pursuant to Public Act 93-1099 and 55 ILCS 5/5-
1031, there is hereby imposed a tax on the privilege of transferring a
controlling interest in a real estate entity owning property located in the
county, including a lessee’s interest in certain ground leases, in the amount
of $0.25 per $500 consideration or fraction of $500 value declared in the real
estate transfer declaration required by 35 ILCS 200/31-25, such tax to be in
addition to any and all transfer tax currently authorized for collection by the
county.
(Res. 2005-57, passed 5-17-2005)
§ 34.03  COLLECTION OF LATE PAYMENT INTEREST ON REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   35 ILCS 200/21-15 requires the County Treasurer and the County Tax
Collector to collect interest at a rate of 1.5% per month on property tax
installments that are unpaid on the day following each installment due date.
   (B)   The same statute further indicates that all interest received shall be
paid into the County General Fund.
   (C)   It is in the best interest of county government for the County
Treasurer and the County Tax Collector to enforce this penalty on late payment
of real estate taxes in order to bring the county into compliance with state
law.
(Res. 2007-12, passed - -)
§ 34.04  COUNTY TAX SALE; REGISTRATION PERIOD.
   The ten business day waiting period has been waived for the eligibility of
any bidder on parcels of land at the county tax sale.
(Res. 2006-41, passed 11-21-2006)
HOTEL OPERATORS’ TAX
§ 34.15  TAX; RENTING, LEASING OR LETTING HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Board of Franklin County, Illinois.
      OPERATOR. The owner operator of each hotel or motel within the county and
the persons, firms or corporations having a right-of-property, operating said
hotel or motel having been issued a license by virtue of governing laws with
the state.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT. A person who rents a hotel and/or motel room in the
same establishment for more than 30 consecutive days or a person who works and
lives in the hotel and/or motel.
      TREASURER. The Treasurer of Franklin County, Illinois.
   (B)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed, pursuant 55 ILCS 5/5-1030 et seq., upon
all operators of each hotel and/or motel within the county for the use of
renting, leasing or letting of rooms in such hotel and/or motel.
      (2)   The rate of such tax shall be at the rate of 2% of the gross rental
receipts from each rental, leasing or letting. Persons, firms or corporations
subject to the tax hereby imposed may reimburse themselves for their tax
liability for such tax by separately stating such tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination and in single amount with the state
tax imposed under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act as provided in 35
ILCS 145/1 et seq.
      (3)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be paid in addition to any
and all taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the operator to pay the
amount of the tax to the Treasurer under procedures prescribed by the Treasurer
or as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   Certificate of registration. It shall be unlawful and a violation of
this section for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the business of
renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel and/or motel within the county
without a certificate of registration from the Treasurer. Such registration
shall be issued by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall provide registration
forms to each hotel and/or motel operator.
   (D)   Computation of tax.
      (1)   Each operator shall file an occupancy tax report each and every
month with the Treasurer. The report shall contain the total dollar gross
receipts received from room occupancy rentals along with the total amount due
and payable to the county heretofore required by the adoption of the ordinance
from which the provisions of this section derive.
      (2)   Occupancy tax reports shall be available to each hotel and/or motel
operator through the office of the Treasurer. All such reports shall be filed
on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month for which the
report is made.
   (E)   Taxing period.
      (1)   The monthly taxing periods, for the purpose of this section, shall
commence on April 1, 1995. The tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before May 20, 1995. Thereafter, taxing periods and tax payments
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   At the time of filing such tax return, the operator shall pay the
full amount of all tax due hereunder, less a discount of $2.08, which is
allowed to reimburse the operator for the expense incurred in filing the return
and remitting the tax to the Treasurer.
   (F)   Deadline. Taxes due the county, by virtue of this section, shall be
due and payable to the county on the twentieth day of the month immediately
following the month of collection.
   (G)   Proceeds of taxes. Proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax
hereunder, including penalties, shall be paid into the County Treasury. Such
taxes and penalties received by the county shall be expended by the county
solely to promote tourism, conventions, exhibitions, theatrical, sports and
cultural activities within the county or otherwise to attract non-resident
overnight visitors to the county. Expenditures of all such funds for such
purposes shall be approved by the County Board.
   (H)   Exemptions. Gross receipts received by each hotel and/or motel
operator from the renting, leasing or letting of rooms to permanent residents
of such hotel and/or motel are hereby exempt from taxation by the county.
   (I)   Effective date. The ordinance from which the provisions of this
section derive shall become effective April 1, 1995. The County Clerk is hereby
directed to cause said ordinance to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a copy of said ordinance and such publication shall
constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is the
determination of the County Board.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-21-1995)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.16  HOTEL OPERATORS’ TAX; REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenue received by the county pursuant from the Hotel Operators’
Occupation Tax Act, shall be distributed by the County Board in accordance with
the intent of §
34.15 and 55 ILCS 5/5-1030 until further resolution or decree.
   (B)   No future funds generated from the hotel operators’ occupation tax
shall be distributed by the County Tourism Bureau, and the County Treasurer
shall suspend further payments of revenues from the tax to the County Tourism
Bureau.
   (C)   All funds previously dispersed by the county to the County Tourism
Bureau pursuant to the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act which have not been
spent by said entity shall be returned to the County Treasurer.
   (D)   The County Chairperson shall make demand upon the County Tourism
Bureau for return of all county hotel operators’ occupation tax money in its
possession and to take other measures necessary to secure the return of said
money to the County Treasurer.
(Res. 2013-61, passed 11-19-2013)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate the provisions
of §
34.15, in addition to any and all other penalties provided for therein, he, she
or they shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$1,000 and a separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed upon each
day in which such violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   A penalty of 1.5% of the total tax due per month will be due and
payable to the county should any hotel and/or motel operator fail to file an
occupancy tax report by the twentieth day of each given month.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-21-1995)
CHAPTER 35:  PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
   
35.02   Direct deposit of payroll
   
35.03   Wages; public employees
   
35.04   Flexible benefits plan
Ethics Policy
   
35.20   Definitions
   
35.21   Prohibited political activities
   
35.22   Gift ban
   
35.23   Ethics Advisor
   
35.24   Effective date
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The “1994 Revised Personnel Policy Ordinance” and any and all amendments are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2003-02, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 35.02  DIRECT DEPOSIT OF PAYROLL.
   (A)   Direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) is an increasingly common
and accepted way of distributing payroll to employees. Direct deposit offers
advantages to the county government and employees by making payroll more
convenient and reducing the possibility of check fraud.
   (B)   A majority of county employees have expressed a desire to have their
payroll deposited directly into their savings or checking accounts through
electronic funds transfer.
   (C)   The County Board authorizes the County Treasurer to implement a direct
deposit program.
   (D)   Existing employees will be given the option of receiving their payroll
via direct deposit or paper check. All new employees of the county hired on or
after September 17, 2007 shall be required to have their payroll deposited by
electronic funds transfer.
(Res. 2007-15, passed - -)
§ 35.03  WAGES; PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   To the extent and as required by 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq., “An
Act Regulating Wages of Laborers, Mechanics and Other Workers Employed in Any
Public Works by State, County, City or Any Public Body or Any Political
Subdivision or by Anyone under Contract for Public Works”, approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public works
coming under the jurisdiction of the county is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the county area
as determined by the Department of Labor of the state as of June of the current
year, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference.
      (2)   As required by said Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing
rate of wages by the State Department of Labor shall supersede the Department’s
June determination and apply to any and all public works construction
undertaken by the county. The definition of any terms appearing in this section
which are also used in the aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works of the county to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall publicly post, or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the county, this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination, or
of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in
effect, shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The County Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employers who have filed their names and addresses requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The County Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section
with the Secretary of State Index Division and the State Department of Labor.
   (F)   The County Clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a notice that the ordinance from which the
provisions of this section derive has been adopted and such publication shall
constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is the
determination of this public body.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 6-19-2012; Ord. 2014-03, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 35.04  FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN.
   (A)   The County Board hereby adopts the flexible benefits plan (consisting
of the flexible benefits plan document, the adoption agreement and component
benefit plans and policies) for the county, effective as of the date specified
in the adoption agreement.
   (B)   Any officer of the county may, without a further resolution, execute
the adoption agreement and any related documents or amendments which may be
necessary or appropriate to adopt the plan or maintain its compliance with
applicable federal, state and local law.
(Res. 1996-11, passed 5-21-1996)
ETHICS POLICY
§ 35.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization or the selection, nomination or election of presidential or vice-
presidential electors, but does not include activities relating to the support
or opposition of any executive, legislative or administrative action, relating
to collective bargaining or that are otherwise in the futherance of the
person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers, or petitions for
nomination or election, to an elected office or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at
a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the State Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME.
      (1)   With respect to an employee, any time worked by, or credited to,
the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as a
condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this subchapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
      (2)   With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by, or awarded to, an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the county, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The County of Franklin, Illinois.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to, or attributable to, government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
services in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of, or in connection with, any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to the collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase
of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with, a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by an officer or by an employee or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business, or seeks to do business, with the officer or with an
employee or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the officer or by an employee or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)
§ 35.21  PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the county in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity as part
of that officer or employee’s duties as a condition of employment or during any
compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this section.
   (E)   No person, either in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to Federal Standards
for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-in-aid
programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because he
or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a political party
or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)  Penalty, see §
35.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 5 ILCS 430/5-15
§ 35.22  GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”) shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pay the fair market value;
      (3)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code or
activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great-aunt, great-uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
      (7)   (a)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient, or his or her spouse or immediate family member,
and not because of the personal friendship; and
         (b)   In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the circumstances under which
the gift was offered, such as the history of the relationship between the
individual giving the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any
previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; whether to the actual
knowledge of the recipient, the individual who gave the gift personally paid
for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business reimbursement for the gift;
and whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the individual who gave
the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other officers
or employees or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are consumed on the
premises from which they were purchased or prepared or catered. For the
purposes of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are purchased
ready-to-consume which are delivered by any means;
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or entranced because of others in similar
circumstances;
      (10)   INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFTS. For the purpose
of this subchapter, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer
or employee from another officer or employee and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and/or
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source, during any
calendar year, having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (C)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (D)   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family
member living with the officer or employee does not violate this subchapter if
the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a
prohibited source to its source or gives the gift, or an amount equal to its
value, to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under §
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)  Penalty, see §
35.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 5 ILCS 430/10
§ 35.23    ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The County Chairperson, with the advice and consent of the members of
the County Board, shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the county. The duties
of the Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the county
unless the position has been created as an office by the County Board pursuant
to proper ordinance.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the county concerning the interpretation of the compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the County Board.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)
§ 35.24  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derive shall be
in effect upon its passage, approval and publication, if required, as provided
by law.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
35.21 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution, other
than a penitentiary, for a period of not more than 364 days and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally violates any provision of §
35.22 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of §§
35.21 through 35.23 to the local enforcement authorities, the State’s Attorney
or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a term of
incarceration in a penal institution, other than a penitentiary, for a period
of not more than 364 days and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   A violation of §
35.21 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the County State’s Attorney
by filing in the Circuit Court an information, or sworn complaint, charging
such offense. The prosecution shall be under, and conform to, the rules of
criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of
the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A violation of §
35.22 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by the County State’s
Attorney.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, when
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
35.21 and
35.22 is subject to discipline or discharge.
      (6)   All alleged violations of §§
35.21 through 35.23 shall only be investigated by the County Sheriff’s
Department and forwarded as typed reports to the County State’s Attorney.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 6-29-2004)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50:  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Adoption by reference
   
50.03   Required area
   
50.04   Subdivisions
   
50.05   Permit requirements
   
50.06   Enforcement
   
50.07   Issuance of notice
   
50.08   Hearings
   
50.09   Citation notice
   
50.10   Effective date
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The legally designated administrator or the
acting administrator of the County Health Department and shall include those
persons designated by the administrator or acting administrator to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Board of Health or its
authorized representative(s).
   COMMON COLLECTOR. An underground, enclosed conduit designed to carry treated
sewage effluent, exclusive of stormwater, from three or fewer properties per
day and has a surface discharge. An example of a COMMON COLLECTOR is a solid
plastic pipe installed to carry treated sewage effluent from two or three
discharging systems with a combined design flow of less than 1,500 gallons per
day. Examples of what is not a COMMON COLLECTOR are road ditches, field
ditches, curbs and gutters, grassed waterways, concrete or other lined drainage
ways.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings, business or
office buildings, institutions, food service establishments and similar
facilities. (225 ILCS 225/3)
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons who have been designated by the
Board of Health to administer the affairs of the Health Department.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Public Health
Department, an agency of the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Board of Health.
   HOME OWNER. A contract-for-deed buyer or a person who holds a legal title to
a residential structure which is to be used, or is used, for his or her
personal single-family residence.
   HOME OWNER INSTALLED SYSTEM. A private sewage disposal system installed by a
home owner for his or her personal single-family residence.
   MODIFY. Any change in the design or components of a private sewage disposal
system requiring a permit herein defined.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Board of Health, or its authorized
representative, permitting the construction of an individual sewage disposal
system under this chapter.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage from less than 15 people, or population equivalent,
and having a ground surface discharge or any sewage handling or treatment
facility receiving domestic sewage and having no ground surface discharge. (225
ILCS 225/3)
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person
excavating, constructing, repairing, installing, modifying or maintaining or
servicing a private sewage disposal system.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR. Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of
wastes removed therefrom. (225 ILCS 225/3)
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.02  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter shall adopt by reference, and shall be interpreted and enforced
in accordance with, provisions set forth in the current unabridged form of 225
ILCS 225, the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and the code promulgated
thereunder by the State Department of Public Health, and any subsequent
amendments or revisions thereto, three certified copies of which shall be on
file in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.03  REQUIRED AREA.
   (A)   (1)   Minimum lot size for a residential structure shall be one acre
in size excluding road easements.
      (2)   Lots platted and on record before the effective date of the
ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive will be given
special consideration when applying for a permit. A smaller area may be
requested if a community sewage collection system is proposed.
      (3)   A variance may be granted if it is impractical or impossible to
comply with the code and an approved system can be installed and no potential
health hazards will exist. However, the area shall be large enough to provide
for a second private sewage disposal system of a size and type equivalent to
the minimum system approved for the lot.
   (B)   Common collectors are prohibited for use in the county.
   (C)   The final discharge point of the private sewage systems that produce a
surface discharge must be a minimum distance of 50 feet from property lines.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.04  SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall require persons/corporations who subdivide property
to furnish information concerning lot sizes, soil topography maps and location
of water supplies. Changes in a proposed subdivision plat must also be
submitted. This information is needed to ascertain that each lot of said
proposed subdivision will be able to support the installation and subsequent
use of an approved private sewage disposal system as defined in 225 ILCS 225,
the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and the code promulgated thereunder
by the State Department of Public Health, and any subsequent amendments or
revisions thereto, herein referred to as the  Sewage Code.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the plat, the Health Department will review the plat
within 15 working days. The developer, County Plat Officer and the County
Highway Engineer will be advised of the results of the review in writing. If
the review determines the proposed plat does not adequately address the private
sewage disposal system, a detailed explanation of the deficient areas will be
provided. To facilitate the review of the plat, the following information must
be submitted:
      (1)   Proposed plat;
      (2)   Subdivision covenants;
      (3)   A statement of the availability of public sewer service, 77 Ill.
Adm. Code § 905.20(e) of the Sewage Code, a statement describing the
availability of a public water supply and, if available, the location of the
water mains;
      (4)   The location of existing and proposed drainage tiles, natural
drainage areas, ponds, lakes, easements, wells or abandoned wells; and
      (5)   A statement on the potential for flooding based on field
observations and historical review, 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 905.20(j)(1) of the
Sewage Code.
   (C)   (1)   For every private surface discharging sewage system, a detailed
description of the proposed effluent disposal method must be submitted
verifying disposal in accordance with 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 905.110 of the
Private Sewage Disposal Code.
      (2)   If it is proposed to dispose of the effluent to the ground surface,
then the method to be used to prevent the effluent from ponding or creating a
nuisance condition must be described. Further, if it is proposed to discharge
the effluent to a common collector and the common collector will carry a flow
in excess of 1,500 gallons per day, then the developer must obtain a
construction permit for the common collector and a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit from the State Environmental Protection Agency and
submit copies of such permits to the Department.
   (D)   Should a developer fail to submit the information necessary for this
review, the County Plat Officer and the County Highway Engineer will be so
advised.
   (E)   (1)   Minimum lot size for a residential structure requiring a private
sewage disposal system, shall be one acre in size excluding road easements or,
as established by
Ch. 151, whichever is greater. A larger area may be required for such lots if,
in the opinion of the Health Department, there are factors of drainage, soil
conditions or other conditions, such as surface discharges from private sewage
disposal systems which may cause health problems or nuisance conditions.
      (2)   If a subsurface seepage field is proposed, a soil investigation
must be performed by a soil classifier or a state licensed professional
engineer. The soil investigation shall meet the requirements of the Sewage Code
77 Ill. Adm. Code § 905.55, Part A(1) and (2).
      (3)   Lots platted and on record before the effective date of the
ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive, for which sewage
plans were approved, will receive a variance from this section. A smaller lot
may be requested if a community sewage collection system is proposed and
approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency. A variance may be
granted if, in the opinion of the Health Department, it is impractical or
impossible to comply with the Sewage Code and an approved system can be
installed that does not create health hazards or nuisance conditions.
   (F)   (1)   A private sewage disposal system that produces a surface
discharge, which may leave the home owner’s property, shall first enter an
effluent receiving system of no less than 150 square feet per bedroom or to the
maximum extent practicable to minimize off lot discharges from the private
sewage system.
      (2)   The effluent receiving system shall be installed so, when full, the
effluent discharged will bypass the effluent receiving system and enter the
chlorination unit before discharging to the ground surface.
   (G)   An effluent reduction system will consist of:
      (1)   A trench with a depth of 12 to 24 inches;
      (2)   A trench width of 24 to 36 inches; and
      (3)   A four-inch perforated pipe with a gravel size of three-fourths to
four inches, graveless pipe or a chambered system, size installed in accordance
with the Sewage Code per 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 905.55. Additional technology will
be evaluated in order to achieve compliance with the Sewage Code for flow
reduction methods on surface discharging private sewage systems.
   (H)   The final discharge point of the private sewage systems that produce a
surface discharge must be a minimum distance of 50 feet from property lines.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.05  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend
individual domestic sewage disposal systems within the county unless he or she
holds a valid permit issued by the Health Department stating the name of such
person for which the specific construction, alteration or extension is
proposed. This permit shall be valid for period of 12 months from the date it
is issued.
   (B)   All applications for permits granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made to the Board of Health or its duly authorized
representative.
   (C)   A permit shall only be issued to a home owner and/or a state licensed
private sewage disposal system installation contractor installing a sewage
disposal system.
   (D)   Permit application forms provided by the Health Department shall be
completed and signed by each applicant and shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and location of the proposed site
of construction, alteration or extension as proposed; and
      (2)   Complete plan of the proposed disposal facility attesting to its
compliance with the minimum standards of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Health, or its authorized representative, may
refuse to grant a permit for the construction of a private sewage disposal
system where a sanitary sewage system is available.
      (2)   A sewer shall be deemed available when a sanitary sewer line is in
place within any street, alley, right-of-way or easement that adjoins or abuts
the premises for which the permit is requested or when the improvement to be
served is located within a reasonable distance of a sanitary sewer to which a
connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority for the
sewer.
      (3)   A reasonable distance for the purpose of this provision shall be
deemed to be not greater than 300 feet for a single-family residence and not
greater than 1,000 feet for a commercial establishment, subdivision or multi-
family dwelling.
   (F)   The Board of Health, or its authorized representative, shall act upon
all applications within 15 days of receipt thereof.
   (G)   Percolation tests, as required by this chapter, shall be performed
according to the provisions of 225 ILCS 225, the State Private Sewage Licensing
Act and the code promulgated thereunder by the State Department of Public
Health, adopted hereinafter by reference. The Health Department reserves the
right to determine the validity of any test and, in cases where more than one
set of tests are performed, the Health Department shall determine which test
results shall prevail. The Health Department shall be notified at least one day
prior to the performance of all tests and may supervise any test.
   (H)   The Health Department shall be notified of any modification, change or
repair to any private sewage disposal system by either a home owner or
contractor to determine whether that modification, change or repair requires a
permit as set forth in division (A) above. The routine cleaning of disposal
system components, replacing septic tank cover, or rodding out inlet and
outlets, does not require a construction permit as defined under this section.
   (I)   There will be a fee charged for the initial construction permit,
alteration or extension of an individual sewage system. The fee shall be
collected by the Health Department at the time an application for permit is
submitted and shall be deposited into the Health Department Fund. The fee
schedule shall be as approved by the Board of Health.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge untreated sewage or the effluent
from any septic tank directly or indirectly to any stream, ditch, ground
surface, sink hole or abandoned well or to allow the contents of any privy
vault, septic tank or seepage pit to emit offensive odors, to become
objectionable, dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (B)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall be updated to comply with the requirements of this
chapter when they require a permit to repair or replace that system.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of a property to give
the Board of Health, or its authorized representative, free access at
reasonable times to any property that has a private sewage disposal system on
it for the purpose of making such inspections as are necessary to determine
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   A private sewage disposal system shall not be covered or placed in
operation until the said installation has been inspected and written approval
of the said system shall have been issued by the Health Department.
   (E)   If any person who installs a private sewage disposal system shall
backfill any portion of the said system and/or cover the same with earth,
cinders, gravel, shale or any other material which will prevent the same from
being readily viewed to determine if the said system meets all requirements of
the chapter before receipt of written approval by the Health Department, the
Health Department may give 15-days’ notice in writing to such home owner so
violating the provisions of the chapter to uncover such backfilled or covered
portions of the system.
   (F)   If, at the end of such 15 days, the home owner shall not have
uncovered the individual sewage disposal system, the permit is automatically
invalidated and penalty action may be taken, the Health Authority may elect to
have the system uncovered at the expense of the home owner. Failure of the home
owner to pay such costs within 30 days shall result in execution of a lien
against the property.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  ISSUANCE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Department determines that a violation of any
provision of this chapter has occurred, the Health Department shall give notice
to the person responsible for such violation. This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time, as determined by the Health Department, for
performance of any act it required;
      (4)   Be served upon the person responsible for the violations provided
that such notice shall have been properly served upon the person responsible
for the violations when a copy thereof has been sent by registered or certified
mail to his or her last known address as furnished to the Health Department or
when he or she has been served with such notice by any other method authorized
by laws of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to effect
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall not be prerequisite to enforcement of the penalty provisions
of this chapter that the Health Department first resort to the notice procedure
set forth in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, 255 ILCS 225/11
§ 50.08  HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings before the Health Authority.
      (1)   Any person affected by an order or notice issued by the Health
Department in connection with the enforcement of any section of this chapter
may file in the office of the Health Department a written request for a hearing
before the Health Authority.
      (2)   The Health Authority shall hold a hearing at a time and place
designated by the Health Department within 30 days from the date on which the
written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of
the time and place of the hearing not less than five days prior to the date on
which the hearing is to be held. If, as a result of the hearing, the Health
Authority finds that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the
Health Authority may modify or withdraw the order or notice.
      (3)   The Health Authority shall render a decision within ten days after
the date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file
in the office of the Health Department as a matter of public record. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Health Authority may seek relief therefrom
through a hearing before the Board of Health.
   (B)   Hearings before the Board of Health.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Health Authority
rendered as the result of a hearing held in accordance with this section may
file in the office of the Health Department a written request for a hearing at
a time and place designated by the Board of Health within 30 days of the date
on which the written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing shall be
notified of the time and place of the hearing not less than five days prior to
the date on which the hearing is to be held.
      (2)   If, as a result of facts elicited as a result of the hearing, the
Board of Health finds that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by granting a variance from the decision of the
administrator or acting administrator, the Board of Health may grant a
variance.
      (3)   The Board of Health will render a decision within ten days after
the date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file
in the office of the Health Department and a copy thereof shall be served on
the petitioner personally or by delivery to the petitioner by certified mail.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.09  CITATION NOTICE.
   (A)   When anyone fails or refuses to correct any violation(s) of this
chapter, after due notice and time specified in §
50.07, the Health Authority shall issue a citation notice to the person
responsible for the violation. The citation notice shall state the date, time
and place the person responsible for the violation(s) is to appear in the
county court. Upon conviction, the person responsible for the violation(s)
shall be subject to the penalty specified under §
50.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   When a private sewage disposal system is installed without a valid
permit being issued by the Health Authority, a citation notice shall be issued
to the person responsible for the violation, with no prior notice required.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall be in
full force and effect from the date of its adoption.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a petty offense with a fine of
up to $1,000 for each offense.
   (B)   Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 3-28-2006)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Disposal and Hauling
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Licensing
   
51.04   Reporting
   
51.05   Effective date
   
51.06   Other ordinances and agreements
   
51.07   Provisions cumulative
   
51.08   Amendments
Solid Waste Management Plan
   
51.20   Plan adopted by reference
 
   
51.99   Penalty
DISPOSAL AND HAULING
§ 51.01  SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derive is adopted
and shall hereinafter be known and cited as the “Franklin County Solid Waste
Disposal and Hauling License Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT UNIT.  Any building or any part of any building
wherein commerce or business is conducted, both profit and not-for-profit,
including but not limited to, stores, markets, offices, restaurants, shopping
centers, theaters, schools, churches, government offices and manufacturing
facilities.
   COMPOSTING.  The biological process by which microorganisms decompose the
organic fraction of waste, producing a humus-like material that may be used as
a soil conditioner.
   COUNTY. The County of Franklin or its designated agent to administer the
provisions of this subchapter.
   DAY. One calendar day.
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   Any refuse products or materials including, but not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, sale or consumption of food;
         (b)   Animal excretion;
         (c)   Glass or metal containers, products or objects discarded as no
longer usable;
         (d)   Paper, wood and cardboard waste;
         (e)   Uprooted weeds, grass clippings, leaves and the like;
         (f)   Ashes and cinders;
         (g)   Discarded furniture or clothing; and
         (h)   Dead animals.
      (2)   The term GARBAGE does not include human excretion in the form of
body waste.
   HAULER.  Any person who engages in the business of collecting or hauling
garbage, solid waste, recyclables, landscape waste, trash, brush or other
refuse on a continuous and regular basis; and makes multiple scheduled
collections each month within the county.
   MATERIAL RECOVERY FACILITIES (MRFS). A center capable of separation and
recovery of recyclable materials from mixed waste after it is collected from
the waste generator.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.  Materials that are separated from garbage, solid
waste, trash, or refuse for the purpose of recycling, such as, but not limited
to aluminum and tin cans, newspapers, corrugated cardboard, high grade printing
and writing papers, magazines, landscape waste, plastic and glass containers,
motor oil and vehicle fluids; and for which an economic and practical recycling
market exists for the particular material.
   RECYCLING, RECLAMATION or REUSE.  A method, technique or process designed to
remove any contaminant from waste so a to render the waste reusable, or any
process by which materials that would otherwise be disposed of or discarded are
collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic mainstream in
the form of raw materials or products; but does not include the combustion of
waste for energy recovery or volume reduction.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A place of business using a method, technique or process
designed to remove any contaminant from waste so as to render the waste
reusable or any process by which  materials that would otherwise be disposed of
or discarded are collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products but does not include the
combustion of waste for energy recovery or volume reduction.
   REFUSE.  Waste and shall be synonymous with the terms “garbage”, “refuse”,
“rubbish”, “solid waste” and “trash”.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. Single and multi-family dwelling units of
habitation.
   SCAVENGING.  The unauthorized collection or removal of, in a manner not in
conformity with the law governing scavenging, materials, solid waste, and
recyclable materials from a solid waste management facility, or that has been
set out or discarded by persons specifically for authorized collection.
   SOLID WASTE.  Any garbage, general residential dwelling unit and dwelling,
commercial establishment unit waste, industrial lunchroom or office waste,
landscape waste, and construction and demolition debris.
   SOLID WASTE STREAM.  Garbage, refuse or waste generated by residential
dwelling units, dwelling units, and commercial establishment units.
   TRANSFER STATION. Facilities where solid waste is transferred from
collection vehicles to large transport vehicles for hauling to a final disposal
site.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 51.03  LICENSING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of operating a transfer
station, recycling center, material recovery facility (MRF), collecting or
hauling garbage, solid waste, recyclables or other refuse from sites within the
county, without first procuring a license to do so from the county. Such
license shall be valid for one year beginning June 1 of each year through June
1 of following year.
   (B)   The county shall prepare and make available to all applicants an
application form for licenses. The application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name and type of business;
      (2)   Name of business manager;
      (3)   Name and address of the person designated as the legal
representative of the business (such as president or owner);
      (4)   Property description, address and telephone number of business;
      (5)   Year, make and model of each hauling vehicle;
      (6)   Type of each vehicle (such as dump truck, pickup and the like);
      (7)   For each vehicle, its vehicle identification number, license plate
number and fleet number;
      (8)   Weight of each vehicle;
      (9)   Capacity of each vehicle in tons or cubic yards; and
      (10)   Such other information as the county shall deem appropriate and
necessary.
   (C)   The licensee shall notify the county in writing within 30 days
following a change in any application information.
   (D)   The county shall provide license renewal forms to each licensee within
60 days prior to the expiration of the licensee’s current license. License
renewal forms shall be completed and received by the county 30 days prior to
the expiration of the licensee’s current license.
   (E)   The county may grant a conditional license where an application is
incomplete. The conditional license shall specify the conditions upon which a
permanent license will be granted and the time requirement within which the
conditions must be met. Failure to comply the conditions specified shall result
in a conditional license revocation and denial of a permanent license.
   (F)   The county shall have 30 days from the receipt of the license or
renewal application to issue or deny the license, license renewal or
conditional license. The county will issue a temporary license valid for 30
days upon the county’s failure to act upon the application within 30 days.
   (G)   The past history of the applicant, in terms of compliance with this
subchapter, will be considered for purposes of issuance or denial of the
license. The county shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision. If
issued, the license shall be mailed by first class mail to the address provided
in the application. If denied, a written decision shall be served by certified
mail upon the applicant at the address provided in the application.
   (H)   A license denial shall provide written notice stating the basis for
the denial and shall provide notice to the applicant that if an appeal is
desired, a written request for a hearing must be received by the county within
15 days following service of the denial. Upon receipt of a hearing request, the
county shall set a time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures in §
51.99.
   (I)   The annual license fee for each transfer station shall be $500. The
annual license fee shall be prorated in the event the licensing period is less
than one year’s duration. Payment of all fees must accompany the license
application/renewal.
   (J)   The annual license fee for each recycling center shall be $50. The
annual license fee shall be prorated in the event the licensing period is less
than one year’s duration. Payment of all fees must accompany the license
application/renewal.
   (K)   The annual license fee for each material recovery facility (MRF) shall
be $50. The annual license fee shall be prorated in the event the licensing
period is less than one year’s duration. Payment of all fees must accompany the
license application/renewal.
   (L)   The annual license fee for each hauler shall be $10 plus $10 for each
vehicle used in collecting or hauling garbage. The annual license fee shall be
prorated in the event the licensing period is less than one year’s duration.
Payment of all fees must accompany the license application/renewal.
   (M)   The annual license fee for each municipality within the county owing
or operating a transfer station, recycling center, material recovery facility
(MRF) or garbage hauling vehicles shall be $0. Said municipalities must still
obtain a license from the county and comply with all reporting procedures
contained in this subchapter.
   (N)   A copy of the license shall be displayed in all businesses and carried
in all hauling vehicles at all times.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  REPORTING.
   Each licensee shall submit a written quarterly report on forms provided by
the county based upon the quantity of solid waste collected in the quarter.
These quarterly reports are due on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31
of each calendar year and shall contain a summary of all wastes received,
hauled, recycled, transferred and where waste was deposited. Failure to submit
a report shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and will result in
suspension or revocation of the license. Names and addresses of recycling
processors/end market’s used will remain strictly confidential.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of the ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter
derive shall be effective on June 1, 1997.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 51.06  OTHER ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   This subchapter is not intended to abrogate any existing covenant or
any other private agreement, provided that where the provisions of this
subchapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than
such covenant or other private agreement, this subchapter’s requirements shall
govern.
   (B)   Where the requirements of any municipality’s or township’s ordinances
or programs are more stringent than the provisions of this subchapter, the more
restrictive program and/or ordinance requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 51.07  PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are cumulative and are additional
limitations upon all other laws and ordinances covering any subject matter
within this subchapter.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 51.08  AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended from time to time by amendatory ordinances.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 51.20  PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The County Board hereby adopts the “Franklin County Solid Waste Management
Plan, Fifteen-Year Update” by reference.
(Res. 11-29, passed 9-20-2011)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations and penalties.
         (a)   Within any 12-month period of time, any licensee who violates
any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.08 may be subject to a fine of $50 for the first violation, $100 for the
second violation and $250 for the third violation. In the case of a fourth
violation within a 12-month period of time, a 14-day suspension of a license
may be imposed. A fifth violation within a 12-month period of time may result
in a two-month license suspension. For further subsequent violations, the
license may be revoked for the remainder of the license term plus an additional
year. Notwithstanding these provisions, any violation of §§
51.01 through
51.08 may result in suspension or revocation proceedings in accordance with
division (B)(2) below.
         (b)   Any person who scavenges solid waste and/or recyclable materials
that have been set out specifically for collection by persons or the county may
be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each occurrence. Each day of any
violation of §§
51.01 through
51.08 which continues constitutes a separate offense for each day in violation.
         (c)   A violation of §§
51.01 through
51.08 shall be initiated by either a citation to the offender or by separate
complaint. The violation shall be prosecuted by the State’s Attorney’s office.
         (d)   In additional to the fines, the county may institute an
injunctive action against the offender, separate from, or in conjunction with,
the subchapter violation proceeding, seeking any appropriate relief to prevent,
abate or correct any violation of §§
51.01 through
51.08 or a threatened violation of §§
51.01 through
51.08.
         (e)   The county may issue a warning notice to any person suspected of
not being in compliance with any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.08.
      (2)   Suspension of license.
         (a)   Any license required under §§
51.01 through
51.08 may be temporarily suspended for a violation of any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.08.
 
         (b)   Whenever a license holder or operator has failed to comply with
any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.08, the license holder shall be notified in writing that the license shall
be suspended as set forth in §§
51.01 through
51.08. The notice shall state that the license holder shall have an opportunity
for a hearing, and procedures for requesting such shall be indicated in the
notice to the license holder. The county, before imposing the suspension,
shall, allow for reasonable advance notice to the license holder of the
suspension before it is imposed. If however, the county finds that the public
health, safety, or welfare requires immediate action, summary suspension of a
license may be ordered. Requesting a hearing shall not delay or stay the
imposition of the temporary or summary suspension.
         (c)   Upon suspension of the license, the license shall be removed
from the business or vehicle and immediately returned to the county.
         (d)   Any person whose license has been suspended may, at any time,
make application for the reinstatement of the license. Upon receipt by the
county of this request, the county may cause a reinspection or resubmission of
corrected information or whatever corrective actions the county may require in
order to reinstate the license. An application for reinstatement shall not
delay or stay the imposition of the temporary or summary suspension.
         (e)   All notices for suspensions shall be by certified mail to or by
personal service on the license holder.
         (f)   In addition to the above, the written notice shall state the
effective date of the suspension; the facts constituting the conclusion that a
violation or violations have occurred; a statement that if the licensee desires
to appeal, a written request for a hearing must be received by the county; and
the consequences to the license holder, if the holder fails to contest the
suspension.
         (g)   All hearings shall be conducted in accordance with subsection
(4) of this section.
      (3)   Revocation of license.
         (a)   For serious and repeated violations of any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.08, or for interference with the county in the performance of its duties
under §§
51.01 through
51.08, the license may be permanently revoked after an opportunity for a
hearing, as set forth in subsection (4) of this division, has been given the
license holder. No license shall be revoked until the license holder has been
notified in writing, as provided below. If the license holder fails to request
a hearing, after being sent notice, by the date indicated in the notice, the
license shall be permanently revoked. If the license holder requests a hearing
within the time stated in the notice, then, the county, at its discretion, may
suspend the license for the duration of the revocation proceedings. Provided
further, nothing herein shall prevent the county from suspending a license,
either summarily or temporarily, concurrently with the license revocation
proceedings.
         (b)   The date of revocation to be inserted in the notice of
revocation shall be at least five days from the date the notice is served on
the license holder. In addition to the above, the notice shall also state
whether or not the license is suspended during the pendency of the revocation
proceedings. Further, the notice must also state the reasons for the
revocation; and that the license holder has the right to a hearing before the
license revocation is imposed. Furthermore, the notice shall state the
consequences to the license holder should the holder fail to request a hearing.
         (c)   All notices for suspensions shall be by certified mail to or by
personal service on the license holder.
         (d)   All hearings shall be conducted in accordance with subsection
(4) below.
      (4)   Hearings.
         (a)   All hearings shall be conducted by the county at a time and
place designated by it. Based upon the record of such hearing, the county shall
make a finding and shall sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or
order considered in the hearing.
         (b)   A written report of the decision shall be furnished to the
license holder by the county within ten working days of the conclusion of the
hearing or such other time as the parties may agree to. All final decisions
resulting from the hearing shall be subject to 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., the
State Administrative Review Act, as now or hereinafter amended.
         (c)   All hearings shall be public and shall be recorded.
         (d)   The cost of preparing a record shall be borne by the applicant
or license holder.
(Ord. 1997-01, passed 2-18-1997)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
71.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Designated truck routes
SCHEDULE I. DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Class II truck routes.
 
Route                                                      Res. No. Date Passed
Portions of FAS 1874 Rend City Road beginning at the
intersection of Il Rte 14 and extending to Il Rte 154 for  2003-28  5-20-2003
8.80 miles
Portions of FAS 868 North Thompsonville Road beginning at
the intersection of Il Rte 34 and extending to the         2003-28  5-20-2003
intersection of Ewing Road, CH 12 and FAS 868 for 11.40
miles
Portions of Ewing Road, CH 12 and FAS 868 beginning at the
intersection of Il Rte 14 and extending to Il Rte 37 for   2003-28  5-20-2003
9.8 miles
FAS 1877 Yellow Banks Road beginning at the intersection
of Il Rte 37 and extending to Il Rte 148 a distance of     2003-45  12-16-2003
6.83 miles
FAS 1876 Orient Road beginning at the intersection of FAS
1877 and extending southerly to the intersection of FAS    2003-45  12-16-2003
1873 Orient Road then extending on FAS 1873 to the
intersection of Il Rte 149 a distance of 3.88 miles
 
   (B)   Class III truck routes.
 
Route                                                    Res. No. Date Passed
CH7 and 17, also described as FAS 868, from Il Rte 34 to 1992-49  12-22-1992
Il Rte 14
Portions of FAS 1874 Rend City Road beginning at the
intersection of Il Rte 14 and extending Il 154 for 8.80  2003-04  1-21-2003
miles
 
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Courthouse parking
SCHEDULE I. COURTHOUSE PARKING.
   (A)   The six parking places currently marked with yellow stripes and signs
stating “30-minute limit” are hereby designated 30-minute parking places.
   (B)   Said restricted parking spaces are immediately east and north of the
area at the Courthouse designated for police vehicles only.
   (C)   No vehicle may be parked in said designated area for a period longer
than 30 minutes.
   (D)   Violation of this schedule is punishable by a $50 fine.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 8-17-1993)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  FIRE PROTECTION
Section
Extreme Fire Hazards
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Notification
   
90.03   Duration
   90.04   Prohibitions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
EXTREME FIRE HAZARDS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTSIDE. Not within the confines of an enclosed and permanent structure.
   PERIOD OF EXTREME FIRE HAZARD. Any period of time when, due to weather
conditions such as dryness, wind, or a combination thereof, or other weather
condition, or combinations thereof, the likelihood of fire spreading out of
control is greater than usual.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 90.02  NOTIFICATION.
   Whenever a period of extreme fire hazard exists, as determined by the Board
Chairperson, a proclamation declaring all outside burning unlawful within the
county during the time specified shall be issued. The Chairperson shall cause
public notice of such proclamation to be given by publication in one or more
newspapers having a general circulation within the county and shall take effect
upon publication. The radio and television stations in the area will also be
notified of the proclamation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 90.03  DURATION.
   (A)   The proclamation provided for in §
90.02 may prohibit all outside burning for any period not to exceed 30 days and
shall cease to be effective at the time stated therein unless, at the end of
the 30-day period, the Chairperson shall deem the period of extreme fire hazard
to still exist. The Chairperson shall then extend the proclamation for an
additional 30-day period.
   (B)   Notice of the extension shall be given by publication as provided in §
90.02. The Chairperson may terminate the proclamation at any time the period of
extreme fire hazard no longer exist. Notice of the termination of the
proclamation shall be given by publication as provided herein.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 90.04  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Burning during period of extreme fire hazard is prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly
burn any type of debris, waste, sewage or any other matter outside during a
period of extreme fire hazard as defined herein.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 7-17-2012)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
90.01 through
90.04, upon conviction, shall be fined a sum of not more than $500.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 7-17-2012)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Animal Control Act; adoption
   
91.02   Effective date
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Administrator; duties
   
91.05   Powers of Health and Environment Committee
   
91.06   Police powers
   
91.07   Dumping of animals
Requirements
   
91.20   Registration of dogs and cats
   
91.21   Inoculation
   
91.22   Collar and identification
   
91.23   Control by owner
   
91.24   Citations
Rabies; Prevention
   
91.35   Dog bites
   
91.36   Prevention and spread of rabies
   
91.37   Apprehension and investigation
Impoundment and Redemption
   
91.50   Impoundment
   
91.51   Redemption
   
91.52   Animals whose owner requests apprehension or impoundment
   
91.53   Adoption
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  ANIMAL CONTROL ACT; ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., is hereby adopted by
this Board as the “Franklin County Animal Control Ordinance”, the ordinance
from which the provisions of this chapter derive, in addition to other
provisions in this chapter.
   (B)   All provisions of the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., are
hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference and, wherein the local
ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive and Animal Control
Act might conflict, the Animal Control Act shall take precedence.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall take
effect July 1, 2001.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed pursuant
to this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person hired by the Board and the Administrator
to perform the duties assigned to that person by the Animal Control Act, this
chapter or the Administrator.
   BOARD. The Franklin County Board.
   CAT. All members of the family feline.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state, appointed by the
Administrator and approved by the Board.
   DOG. All members of the family canidae.
   HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE. The committee of the Board delegated with
the responsibility of overseeing the administration of the Animal Control
Program.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, chain or frame which shall be securely fastened
to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right-of- property in a dog or other animal or
who has a dog or other animal in his or her care or acts as its custodian or
who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the dog’s owner or under control
by leash or identifiable by collar or tags.
   STRAY CAT. Any cat not on the premises of the cat’s owners or under control
by leash or identifiable by collar or tags.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.04  ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment. The Chairperson of the Board shall appoint, with the
advice and consent of the Board, an Animal Control Administrator. The
appointment shall be for two years. The term of the presently appointed
Administrator shall continue as made under prior Ord. 1993-04 and subject to
re-appointment at the conclusion of the two-year term currently being served
under prior Ord. 1993-04.
   (B)   Salary. The Administrator’s salary and expenses, if any, shall be set
annually by the Board and incorporated in the annual budget. The Administrator,
with the advice and consent of the Board, may appoint a Deputy Administrator
and Animal Control Officers at such salary, if any, and with such expenses as
shall be set annually by the Board and incorporated in the annual budget.
   (C)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Administrator to control and
prevent the spread of rabies through education, rabies inoculation, stray
control, impoundment, quarantine and any other means deemed necessary. The
Administrator shall also have the following duties:
      (1)   Administer the Animal Control Program in the county;
      (2)   Make such reports as are required by the Director of the Department
of Agriculture of the state, his or her duly appointed representative, the
Health and Environment Committee or the Board;
      (3)   Direct the activities of, and assign duties to, the personnel
working in the Animal Control Program; and
      (4)   Perform any other duties as required by, and set forth in, the
Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.05  POWERS OF HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Board Health and Environment Committee, by virtue of this chapter,
has the following powers:
      (1)   Develop written job descriptions for all personnel working in the
Animal Control Program;
      (2)   Draft written rules and regulations for the operation of the Animal
Control Program; and
      (3)   Prepare an annual budget for the operation of the Animal Control
Program.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty and power of the County Board Health and
Environment Committee to approve all expenditures under the Animal Control
Program.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.06  POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Administrator, Deputy Administrator and Animal Control Officers
shall not have the power of police officers except for the purposes of issuing
and serving summons and orders for violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The County Sheriff, and his or her deputies, shall cooperate with the
Administrator in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Administrator, Deputy Administrator and Animal Control Officers
are prohibited from carrying firearms but are hereby authorized to carry and
use tranquilizer guns, mace, humane traps and other such equipment as
authorized by the Administrator for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter and 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., the Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.07  DUMPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall cause any animal to be dumped or abandoned in the county.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
REQUIREMENTS
§ 91.20  REGISTRATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Certificate of registration.
      (1)   Every person who is or has been a resident of the county for 30
days or more, and who is the owner of any dog or cat four months or more of
age, shall cause such dog or cat to be registered and shall pay an annual fee
for such animal provided, however, that no registration fee shall be charged
for lead dogs for the blind.
      (2)   The one year registration fee shall be $4 per animal and the three-
year registration fee shall be $9 per animal. The registration fees shall be
levied by the Supervisor-Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   Fee deadline. The registration fee for individual dogs and cats shall
be paid within 20 days of the date said animals are inoculated against rabies,
being a $4 fee in the case of a one-year inoculation and a $9 fee in the case
of a three-year vaccination.
   (C)   Collection of registration fees by local licensed veterinarians.
      (1)   Local licensed veterinarians shall be requested by the Supervisor-
Animal Control Officer to collect the registration fees set forth herein and
the veterinarians shall remit said collected fees to the Treasurer’s office on
a quarterly basis.
      (2)   Failure to collect the correct registration fee and submit same to
the Treasurer on a quarterly basis shall result in no further issuance of
inoculation tags distributed to any non-compliant licensed veterinarian by the
Supervisor-Animal Control Officer.
   (D)   Failure to register. When an owner fails to register his or her dog or
cat as prescribed herein, the Supervisor-Animal Control Officer, or other
employees of the Animal Control Department, shall cause the registration fees
to be collected from the dog owner, plus an additional late fee of $6 per
animal.
   (E)   Registration forms. The Administrator shall provide licensed
veterinarians with appropriate registration forms which shall be distributed to
dog and cat owners by such licensed veterinarians upon the occasion of the
rabies inoculation (vaccination) required by the Animal Control Act and this
chapter. The veterinarians shall send completed inoculation forms to the
Administrator as soon as practicable, preferably monthly.
   (F)   Remittance of fees; Animal Control Fund; use of Fund.
      (1)   All registration fees collected shall be remitted to the Treasurer
who shall place such monies in an Animal Control Fund.
      (2)   This fund is to be set up for the purpose of paying costs of the
Animal Control Program and for the purpose of paying claims for loss of
livestock or poultry as set forth in § 19 of the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS
5/19, and shall be used for paying the cost of stray dog and cat control,
impoundment, education on animal control and rabies and other costs incurred in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  INOCULATION.
   Every owner of a dog or cat four months or more of age shall cause such dog
or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or
every three years, depending on the type of vaccine used, June 30 of the
current year being the deadline for such inoculation. The Administrator shall
provide licensed veterinarians with rabies inoculation certificates in a form
approved by the Health and Environment Committee which shall be signed by the
veterinarian administering the rabies inoculation vaccine. The original of said
certificate shall be issued to the owner of the dog or cat or other animal that
has been inoculated and a copy of the certificate shall be returned to the
Administrator or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat four months of age or more shall cause a
current, valid rabies inoculation tag to be attached to a collar or harness and
worn by the dog or cat to which such tag was issued at all times.
   (B)   Every owner of a dog or cat under four months of age shall have a tag
specifying the owner’s name, address and telephone number attached to a collar
or harness which shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times. Every owner of a
dog or cat shall maintain proof of inoculation and produce it upon request.
   (C)   The rabies inoculation tag attached to the dog or cat shall state
“Franklin County” and the county number thereon. Records of these tags and the
animals vaccinated shall be kept by the veterinarian for a period of five
years.
   (D)   The county registration and tag shall be issued by the licensed
veterinarian.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  CONTROL BY OWNER.
   Every owner of a dog or cat shall keep such dog or cat from leaving the
premises occupied by said owner unless the dog or cat is accompanied or
supervised by its owner or on leash. Every owner of a dog shall keep such dog
from repeated barking when such barking disturbs the peace and continues for
more than one hour.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  CITATIONS.
   Animal Control Officers and peace officers of the county may issue citations
to the owners of animals for violations of §§
91.20 through
91.23 above, in lieu of impounding the animal. When such a citation is issued,
an appearance date of not less than ten days and not more than 45 days shall be
entered by the officer on the citation.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES; PREVENTION
§ 91.35  DOG BITES.
   (A)   When the Administrator, or his or her authorized representative,
receives information that any person has been bitten by a dog or other animal
the Administrator, or his or her authorized representative, shall have such dog
or other animal confined under the observation of a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten days.
   (B)   The dog or other animal shall be examined at least once by a licensed
veterinarian at the end of the quarantine/confinement period. The Administrator
may, by regulation, permit such confinement to be reduced to a period of less
than ten days. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog
or other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing to the Administrator,
within 24 hours after the dog or other animal is presented for examination
giving the owner’s name, address, the date of confinement, the breed,
description, age and the sex of such dog or other animal on appropriate forms
approved by the Administrator and the Department.
   (C)   The Administrator, or his or her authorized representative, shall
notify the attending physician or responsible health agency. At the end of the
confinement period, the veterinarian shall submit a written report to the
Administrator advising him or her of the final disposition of such dog or other
animal on appropriate forms approved by the Administrator and the Department.
   (D)   When evidence is presented that such dog or other animal was
inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law, or non-inoculated
dogs and other animals deemed appropriate by the Administrator or his or her
authorized agent, may be confined in the house of the owner, or in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten days, if the
Administrator or other licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement
satisfactory.
   (E)   The Administrator may, by regulation, permit such confinement to be
reduced to a period of less than ten days.
   (F)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person
has been bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Administrator,
or his or her representative, promptly.
      (2)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog or other animal
known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the Administrator or his
or her authorized representative.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to refuse
or fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
Administrator or his or her authorized representative. If such instructions
cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the owner of such dog or
other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid.
      (4)   The affidavit or testimony of the Administrator, or his or her
authorized representative, delivering or mailing such instructions is prima
facie evidence that the owner of such dog or other animal was notified of his
or her responsibilities.
      (5)   Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog or other animal
under this section shall be borne by the owner.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the word “immediately” means by
telephone, in person or by other than use of the mail.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36  PREVENTION AND SPREAD OF RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in a locality, or when the
proper officials of a government unit are apprehensive of the spread of rabies,
the Board shall act to prevent its spread among dogs and other animals.
   (B)   The Board may order:
      (1)   All dogs or other animals in the locality be:
         (a)   Kept confined within an enclosure; and/or
         (b)   Kept muzzled and restrained by leash.
      (2)   All owners or keepers of dogs or other animals take prophylactic
measures as it deems necessary to prevent the spread of rabies; or
      (3)   Other measures as may be necessary to control the spread of rabies.
   (C)   The Board may determine the area of the locality in which, and the
period of time during which, such orders shall be effective.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37  APPREHENSION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the
Administrator, his or her authorized representative or any peace officer may
enter onto private property to apprehend a dog or other animal thought to be:
      (1)   Infected with rabies;
      (2)   A straying dog or other animal; or
      (3)   A dog or other animal which has bitten any person.
   (B)   At the request of the owner or occupier of private property, the
Administrator, or his or her authorized representative, may enter onto such
property to apprehend any such animal whether or not said animal is wearing a
rabies inoculation tag or an identification tag.
(Ord. 2001, passed 6-19-2001)
IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION
§ 91.50  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officers shall, and any peace officer may,
apprehend and impound the following dogs and cats:
      (1)   Dogs or cats which have bitten a person;
      (2)   Dogs or cats four months or more of age which have not been
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian;
      (3)   Dogs or cats four months or more of age not on the premises of
their owner and which do not have a current, valid rabies inoculation tag
attached to their collar or harness;
      (4)   Dogs or cats under four months of age not on the premises of their
owner and which do not have an identification tag specifying the owner’s name,
address and telephone number attached to their collar or harness; or
      (5)   Dogs or cats wearing a current valid rabies inoculation tag or
identification tag which are not on the premises occupied by the animal’s owner
and are not accompanied or supervised by the owner and are not on a leash when
a written complaint has been received by the Animal Control Officers.
   (B)   When a dog or cat, whose owner is known, is impounded, notice shall be
immediately given to the owner by the Administrator or his or her authorized
representative.
   (C)   If the copy of the notice cannot be served personally on the owner,
the copy may be left with any person 13 years or older residing at the last
known mailing address of the owner or by attaching the notice to the main
entrance of the owner’s residence. Notice may be given by mail to the owner at
the last known mailing address of the owner. An affidavit or testimony of the
Administrator, or his or her authorized representative who mails the notice,
shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the owner.
   (D)   In the case of animals impounded pursuant to divisions (A)(2) through
(A)(5) above, if the dog or cat is not redeemed within three days from the date
the notice was mailed or the animal impounded, if the owner is known, or within
three days if the owner is unknown, the impounded animal shall be humanely
dispatched or otherwise disposed of by the impounding facility as a stray
animal in accordance with the laws that exist or may hereafter exist.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.51  REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When the owner of any animal impounded pursuant to divisions §
91.50(A)(2) through (A)(5) desires to redeem said animal, the following
procedure shall be followed.
      (1)   At the time of impoundment the Animal Control Officer shall prepare
an impoundment form to be approved by the Administrator indicating the fine of
$25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, $100 for the third
offense, with space provided for the total amount of board.
      (2)   The impounding authority shall place on the impoundment form
previously prepared by the Animal Control Officer a charge of $5 per day for
each day or part thereof which the animal was impounded.
      (3)   At the time of release, the owner shall present a current rabies
inoculation certificate and a receipt from the Treasurer showing that the total
amount due, as indicated by the impoundment form, has been paid.
      (4)   If no current rabies inoculation certificate is available, a
warning ticket is to be issued and the owner must sign the warning ticket
acknowledging ownership of the animal and acknowledging receipt of notice
stating the owner understands the animal must be vaccinated for rabies within
five days, in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All amounts collected by the Treasurer, pursuant to this section,
shall be placed in the Animal Control Fund and shall be used in paying the
costs of operating the Animal Control Program more particularly set forth in §
91.20(F).
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.52  ANIMALS WHOSE OWNER REQUESTS APPREHENSION OR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The owner of any dog or cat who requests a Animal Control Officer, or
employees of the Animal Control Department, to apprehend and/or impound his or
her animal(s) shall pay the Treasurer a $10 fee for each and every dog or cat
apprehended and/or impounded under this provision and a $30 fee for each such
dog or cat euthanized under the provisions of §
91.50. These animals could be adopted pursuant to §
91.53.
   (B)   All amounts collected pursuant to this provision shall be remitted to
the Treasurer who shall place such monies in the Animal Control Fund and shall
be used in paying the cost of operating the Animal Control Program more
particularly set forth §
91.53.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.53  ADOPTION.
   In the event any animal is not claimed by its owner within the redemption
period covered by this chapter, the Administrator or Supervisor-Animal Control
Officer, in lieu of dispatching said animal, may consider said animal as
abandoned and may adopt out said animal for a reasonable fee and if the animal
is in compliance with § 11 of the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/11.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of such an offense described in §
91.07 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $100
or more than $500.
   (B)   All individuals who have their dog or cat vaccinated for rabies and
refuse to pay the county registration fee shall be subject to a $30 fine and
applicable costs for failure to pay the county registration fee.
   (C)   The owner of the animal receiving the citation described in §
91.24 may plead guilty to the offense charged in the citation prior to the
scheduled appearance date by so indicating on the citation and pay a fine of
$25 for a first offense, $50 for a second offense, $100 for a third offense,
plus costs, to the Circuit Clerk. This provision is in addition to, and not in
substitution of, the violations and punishments set forth in § 26 of the Animal
Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/26.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 6-19-2001)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Construction
   
92.04   Definitions
   
92.05   Discriminatory terms
   
92.06   Refusal to deal
   
92.07   Withholding housing; owner
   
92.08   Advertisement; owner
   
92.09   Signs and notices; owner
   
92.10   Exemptions; owner
   
92.11   Limitations; owner
   
92.12   Withholding housing; real estate agent
   
92.13   Refusal of offers
   
92.14   Advertisement; real estate agent
   
92.15   Signs and notices; real estate agent
   
92.16   Licensing
   
92.17   Discrimination in lending
   
92.18   Refusals to deal in lending
   
92.19   Coverage
   
92.20   Representation
   
92.21   Other violations
   
92.22   Complaints
   
92.23   Hearings by Board
   
92.24   Enforcement
   
92.25   Remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  TITLE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall be
known, and may be cited as, the “Fair Housing Ordinance of the County of
Franklin, Illinois”.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.02  PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise by the county of its police and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety and welfare
of the persons in and residing in the county and for the maintenance and
promotion of commerce, industry and good government in the county, to secure
all persons living, or desiring to live, in the county a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing without discrimination based on race,
color, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.03  CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in §
92.02 and the special purposes of the particular provision involved.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the county
which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living quarters of
one or more individuals.
   HOUSING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the county,
which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as the home, residence or living quarters of one or more individuals,
groups or families and includes any vacant land within the county which is
zoned and intended to be used for the construction of any such building or
structure.
   LEASE. Includes sublease, assignment and rent (or rental) and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing
loans, any person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans
or guarantees as agent or broker and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to a security interest in real estate, but shall not include any
religious institution or organization nor any charitable or educational
organization operated, supervised or controlled by a religious institution or
organization.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN.The national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any dwelling or housing or who holds a legal or
equitable title to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real
estate cooperative which owns any dwelling or housing.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated organizations, trusts,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PURCHASE. Any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, any real estate salesperson and
any other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the
management or operation of any dwelling or housing.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person licensed as a real estate broker in
accordance with the provision of 225 ILCS 454 or required thereby to be so
licensed.
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Any person licensed as a real estate salesperson in
accordance with the provisions of 225 ILCS 454 or required thereby to be
licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing and an option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE. Any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or assign legal
or equitable title to, or a beneficial interest in, real estate.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.05  DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner, or other person, to sell or lease a dwelling or housing on terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  REFUSAL TO DEAL.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner, or other person, to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or perform
any sale or lease of any dwelling or housing because of the race, color,
religion or national origin of any party to such sale or lease or of any member
of the family of any such party or of any such party or any person using or
occupying or intending to use or occupy such dwelling or housing or of any
person using or occupying any dwelling or housing in the area in which such
dwelling or housing is located.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  WITHHOLDING HOUSING; OWNER.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to represent to any person that any dwelling or
housing is not available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease or occupancy
when in fact it is so available or otherwise to withhold housing from any
person because of race, color, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  ADVERTISEMENT; OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under §§
92.05 through
92.11.
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to cause any person to circulate or
publish a statement, advertisement or notice that such owner or other person
intends to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful
under §§
92.05 through
92.11 or to consent thereto.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09  SIGNS AND NOTICES; OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to post or erect, or cause any person to post or
erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing indicating an intent to
sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under §§
92.05 through
92.11.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10  EXEMPTIONS; OWNER.
   (A)   Sections 92.05 through 92.11 shall not apply to the rental of any room
or dwelling unit in any owner occupied dwelling which consists of more than one
but less than five dwelling units. As used herein, the term DWELLING UNIT means
one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for
one family or one individual.
   (B)   The term OWNER includes the spouse or any lineal descendant or
ancestor of the owner.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.11  LIMITATIONS; OWNER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to the
public at large before selling or renting it, providing he or she complies with
all other provisions of this chapter. Nor shall this chapter be deemed to
prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for any
reason other than religion, race, color or national origin. Nothing in this
chapter shall require an owner to offer property for sale or lease or to show
the property to any person if such person is not negotiating for the purchase
or lease of such property in good faith.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.12  WITHHOLDING HOUSING; REAL ESTATE AGENT.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to represent to any person that any
dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, sale, lease or occupancy
when in fact it is so available or otherwise to withhold housing from any
person because of race, color, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13  REFUSAL OF OFFERS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to refuse to receive or to fail to
transmit a bona fide offer for the purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion or national origin of
the person making such offer.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14  ADVERTISEMENT; REAL ESTATE AGENT.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under §§
92.05 through
92.11.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15  SIGNS AND NOTICES; REAL ESTATE AGENT.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to post or erect, or cause or permit any
person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing,
managed by or in the custody, care or control of such real estate agent or
other person, indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in
a manner that is unlawful under §§
92.05 through
92.19.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  LICENSING.
   Every real estate broker shall apply for and obtain a license from the
county prior to transacting any business involving real estate in the county as
a real estate broker and prior to advertising or assuming to act as such real
estate broker. The commission of a single act as such real estate broker
without such license shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any lending institution, in making, agreeing to make, arranging or negotiating
any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the purchase or
sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of
any dwelling or housing, to offer, seek or agree to terms, conditions or
privileges that discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion
or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  REFUSALS TO DEAL IN LENDING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any lending institution to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or perform any
agreement to lend or guarantee the loan of funds for the purchase, sale,
construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any
dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion or national origin of
any party to such agreement or of the residents of the area in which such
dwelling or housing is located.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  COVERAGE.
   Sections 92.12 through 92.19 shall apply, respectively, to every real estate
agent who, within the county, performs any function as such real estate agent
but does not maintain an office or place of doing business within the county,
and §§
92.12 through
92.19 applies to every real estate agent and lending institution who maintains
an office or place of doing business within the county provided, however, that
the provision of this chapter shall not be so construed as to prohibit a real
estate broker or real estate agent, on behalf of the owner, from inquiring into
and reporting upon qualifications of any prospective buyer or tenant with
respect to limitations or exclusions other than those of race, color, religion
or national origin.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.20  REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real
estate transaction with such person, his or her principal or his or her agent
to:
   (A)   Represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur with
respect to the race, color, religion or national origin in the composition of
the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area in which the
dwelling or housing (which is the subject of the real estate transaction) is
located; or
   (B)   Represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion or
national origin in the composition of the owners or occupants in any block,
neighborhood or area will result in lowering of property values or in an
increase in criminal or anti-social behavior or in a decline in the quality of
schools in such block, neighborhood or area.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person to:
   (A)   Aid, abet, incite or coerce a person to engage in unlawful housing
practice;
   (B)   Willfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the Board or one of its members or representatives; or
   (C)   Willfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this chapter or an order issued thereunder.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provisions of
this chapter may file with the Board a written verified complaint setting forth
the grievance.
   (B)   The complaint shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the complainant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought, if known to the complainant; and
      (3)   The alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter
and such complaint shall state the name and address of all persons believed to
have knowledge concerning the alleged facts.
   (C)   After the filing of any complaint, the Board shall serve a copy of the
complaint on the party or parties charged.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.23  HEARINGS BY BOARD.
   (A)   Such hearing shall be conducted by the Board upon due and reasonable
notice to all parties. The Board shall have power to administer oaths and to
take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have violated this chapter shall be
entitled to be represented by counsel and shall have the right to call
witnesses in his or her own behalf and to cross-examine witnesses.
   (B)   At the conclusion of such hearing, the Board shall render the
complainant a decision.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.24  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall be empowered to order any person found to be engaging
in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice, upon such
terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall be empowered at the conclusion of proceedings held
under §
92.23 to direct the County Attorney to do any one or more of the following:
      (1)   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce against any
person found in violation of this chapter the fine provided for in §
92.99;
      (2)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order
restraining any person from violating any provision of this chapter or for such
other or further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for the
enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof; and
      (3)   To petition or institute proceedings with the Department of
Registration and Education for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesperson found to have violated any provision
of this chapter.
   (C)   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to
petition or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose
of causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Board may issue such cease and desist orders and may direct such
action by the County Attorney as shall be necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.25  REMEDIES.
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in §
92.24 may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief
from such violation, including:
   (A)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
   (C)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing
or any person who, in violation of this chapter, refuses or fails to perform
such contract;
   (D)   Compensatory damages; and
   (E)   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 1995-03, passed 9-18-1995)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SALE OF GOODS
      
111.   LIQUOR
      
112.   FOOD SAFETY
      
113.   AMBULANCE SERVICES
      
114.   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
      
115.   VIDEO GAMING
      
116.   RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
CHAPTER 110:  SALE OF GOODS
Section
   
110.01   Transient merchants
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Any hawker, peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor desiring
to conduct business in any area of the county not within the corporate limits
of a municipality which regulates such merchants must, prior to conducting
business, register in a log kept by the County Clerk his or her name and the
firm he or she represents.
   (B)   (1)   Merchant(s) subject herein, who sell his, her or their product
door-to-door, may conduct business Monday through Friday during the hours of 9:
00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   Merchant(s) subject herein, who sell his, her or their product from
a fixed location, may conduct business from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Pursuant to statute, no fee shall be collected for such registration.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to change, alter or
abrogate 720 ILCS 5/21-3 prohibiting criminal trespass.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any part of this chapter is punishable by a fine up to, and
not exceeding, $500. Each violation is a separate and distinct offense
hereunder subjecting the offender to separate and distinct penalties.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 111:  LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Health and sanitation; permit
   
111.003   Hours
   
111.004   Owners of premises
   
111.005   Acts of agent or employee; liability
   
111.006   Abatement
   
111.007   Effective date
Licenses
   
111.020   Licenses required
   
111.021   Application for license
   
111.022   List of licenses
   
111.023   Issuance of license
   
111.024   Display of license
   
111.025   Bond
   
111.026   Prohibited licensees
   
111.027   License classification; fees; limitations
   
111.028   Term of license
   
111.029   Nature of license
   
111.030   Locations
   
111.031   Revocation of license
Prohibited Acts and Sales
   
111.045   Drinking on public ways
   
111.046   Gambling
   
111.047   Curb service and peddling
   
111.048   Transporting liquor
   
111.049   Disorderly house
   
111.050   Prohibited acts on premises
   
111.051   Purchase or gift; underage
   
111.052   Consumption on streets
   
111.053   Identification required
   
111.054   Delivery to intoxicated persons
   
111.055   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
111.056   Posting warning
   
111.057   Minor selling liquor
   
111.058   Misbranding
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquids, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to
any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a
building, or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such CLUB files with the local
Liquor Control Commissioner, at the time of its application for a license under
this chapter, two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and
similarly files, within ten days of the election of any additional member, his
or her name and address and, provided further, that its affairs and management
are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body
chosen by the members at its annual meeting and that no member or any officer,
agent or employee of the CLUB is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors, or
other governing body, out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   RESORT. Every building and associated structures and grounds kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place for sleeping
accommodations and where the recreational activities are offered for adequate
pay to travelers and guests and in which 25 or more rooms are used for the
sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more associated
structures for the recreational activities of guests in connection therewith
and such building or buildings, structure or structures, being provided with
adequate and safe recreational grounds, equipment and services.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests and where more than 50%
of the gross receipts are obtained from the sale of foodstuffs; except the term
RESTAURANT shall not include a public place wherein liquor is sold for
consumption off the premises.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal or proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL. To keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE OF RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by the distillation,
mixed with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors, when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined herein.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.002  HEALTH AND SANITATION; PERMIT.
   (A)   Sanitary conditions. All premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance
with the codes regulating the condition of the premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption.
   (B)   Diseased employees. It shall be unlawful to employ on any premises
used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with,
or who is a carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with, or a carrier of, any
such disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor.
   (C)   Health permit. Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid
operating permit from the Health Department, which regulates health standards.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003  HOURS.
   (A)   All places licensed by virtue of this chapter shall close at the hour
designated hereafter and shall remain closed until the next applicable opening
hour. Persons, other than bona fide employees, shall vacate the premises where
the alcoholic liquors are sold within 15 minutes after the designated closing
hour. However, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the serving of
food after the closing hour established herein upon the premises used that the
licensee specifically designated for the consumption of food but no alcohol can
be present in said food consumption area after the closing hour.
   (B)   All places operating under a Class “A” or Class “B” license shall
close at 1:00 a.m. Sunday and remain closed until 7:00 a.m. the following
Monday. All other days of the week said Class “A” or Class “B” licenses shall
close at 1:00 a.m. and remain closed until 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   All places operating under a Class “C”, Class “D”, Class “E” and Class
“G” license shall close at 1:00 a.m. Sunday and remain closed until 12:00 noon
Sunday and must again close at 11:00 p.m. Sunday until 7:00 a.m. Monday. All
other days of the week the places operating by virtue of the four classes of
licensed places specified in this section shall close at 1:00 a.m. and remain
closed until 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   All places operating under a Class “F” license shall sell alcohol only
at the times specified in said license.
   (E)   When December 31 falls on a Sunday, all classes of licenses, other
than Class “F”, may open and sell and dispense alcoholic liquors on said day
from 8:00 p.m., December 31, until 1:00 a.m., January 1.
   (F)   Any licensee may apply to the Liquor Control Commissioner for a
special event license (e.g.,  Super Bowl Sunday) upon application to the County
Clerk. Said fee for the special event license shall be $10. Granting of said
special event license and hours of operation will be at the sole discretion of
the Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (G)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby designated by the Liquor
Control Commissioner to make regular unscheduled inspections of liquor
establishments to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.004  OWNERS OF PREMISES.
   If the owner of the licensed premises, or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as said
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.005  ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employee or licensee and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or her
personally.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.006  ABATEMENT.
   Every lot, parcel or tract of land and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
this state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.007  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall be in
full force and effect upon its passage, approval and adoption, as required by
law.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
LICENSES
§ 111.020  LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale or expose for sale, any
alcoholic liquor, as defined in this chapter, within the county, without having
a license from the county therefor. The Liquor Control Commissioner may require
an application on any renewal date of any existing license.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.021  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for a retail liquor license shall be made to the County
Board Chairperson, as Liquor Control Commissioner of the county, in writing on
a form to be furnished by the County Clerk to the applicant. The application
may be made by an individual or by a duly authorized agent. If made by a club
or corporation, the application must be verified by oath or affidavit and shall
contain the following information and statements:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual, and in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof and, in the case of a corporation for profit or a club,
the date of incorporation, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors and, if a majority in interest of the stock of such corporation or
club is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the name and address of such
person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character or, in the case of a corporation, the date on which
the charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has made a similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application;
      (7)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
235 ILCS or in this chapter or resolution and amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government, has been revoked and the
reasons therefore; and
      (9)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of this
chapter or resolution and amendments thereto, in the conduct of his or her
place of business.
   (B)   In case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner and
as to the president and secretary of the corporation with the location of the
principal office of the corporation.
   (C)   (1)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two members of such partnership, firm, association or club or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
      (2)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Liquor Control
Commissioner and one copy given to the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall endorse on
the copies his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make
further comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to
the Liquor Control Commissioner and the endorsement and comment of the Sheriff
shall be considered by him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license
should be issued or refused.
   (D)   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any application for a liquor license or for a
renewal thereof of any license upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has
been served and to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of
any such applicant shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Liquor Control
Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to
act on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.022  LIST OF LICENSES.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep, or cause to be kept, a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him or her and shall furnish the County
Clerk, County Treasurer and Sheriff each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance
of any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the Liquor Control
Commissioner shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers
within 48 hours of such action.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.023  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the application being prepared and executed by the applicant, the
same shall be submitted to the Liquor Control Commissioner for approval. The
Liquor Control Commissioner may withhold action on the application for 30 days
for investigation of the application file before finally taking action thereto.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the Liquor Control Commissioner, after his or her
investigation as provided herein, has any question concerning the eligibility
of the particular applicant to receive a license under this chapter, then said
Liquor Control Commissioner shall confer with a special liquor advisory
committee. This committee shall be appointed by the County Board Chairperson
and shall consist of two County Board members and the State’s Attorney.
      (2)   In the event the Liquor Control Commissioner has asked the advice
of his or her advisory committee, then no final action shall be taken on the
application until the advisory committee has met and made its recommendations
to the Liquor Control Commissioner; provided, however, that the final decision
concerning the issuance of the license shall be made by the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.024  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.025  BOND.
   Before a license is issued by virtue of this chapter, the applicant shall
make bond in the penal sum of $1,000 payable to the People of the State of
Illinois for the use of the county, on the condition that the licensee will
comply with the terms and regulations of this chapter, said bond to be approved
by said local Liquor Commissioner and to provide that the licensee will at all
times obey the laws of the state and all the requirements of this chapter and
that the licensee will pay all fines and costs assessed to the licensee upon
the Liquor Control Commissioner’s determination of a violation of any of the
terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.026  PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued or renewed by the Liquor Control
Commissioner to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the county in
which he or she resides;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of, or is keeping,
a house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon the first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder(s) owning in the aggregate more than 5%of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residency within the county;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possess the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or shall
have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own any premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (M)   Any law-enforcing public official, including members of liquor control
commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of the city council or commission,
any president of the village board of trustees, any member of a village board
of trustees or any president or member of a county board and no such official
shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license may
be granted to such official in relation to premises which are not located
within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the
issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission;
and/or
   (N)   Any person who is not a resident of the county.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.027  LICENSE CLASSIFICATION; FEES; LIMITATIONS.
   Licenses issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner shall be of the following
classes.
   (A)   Class “A” license. A Class “A” license shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquors of all kinds in the place named therein, by the drink,
to be consumed on the premises as well as in unbroken original packages, as
defined in this chapter, and not to be consumed on the premises, but not for
resale. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,000. There shall not be
more than six Class “A” licenses in effect at one time.
   (B)   Class “B” license. A Class “B” license shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquors of all kinds in the place named therein, in its original
package, as defined in this chapter, and not to be consumed on the premises and
not for resale. The annual fee for such license shall be $500.
   (C)   Class “C” license. A Class “C” license shall be issued to a club only,
as defined in this chapter, and shall entitle said club to sell in the place
named therein, by the drink, to be consumed on the premises, as well as in
unbroken original packages as defined in this chapter not to be consumed on the
premises, but not for resale. The annual fee for such license shall be $100.
   (D)   Class “D” license. A Class “D” license shall be issued to a hotel
only, as defined in this chapter, and shall entitle said hotel to sell, in the
place named therein, by the drink, to be consumed on the premises as well as in
unbroken original packages, as defined in this chapter, and not to be consumed
on the premises, but not for resale. The annual fee for such license shall be
$1,000.
   (E)   Class “E” license. A Class “E” license shall be issued to a restaurant
only, as defined in this chapter, and shall entitle said restaurant to sell in
the place therein, by the drink, (includes pitcher for beer and bottle or
carafe for wine), alcoholic liquors of all kinds and consumed on the premises
only. The annual fee for such license shall be $250.
   (F)   Class “F” license. A Class “F” license shall be issued to not-for-
profit organizations by the day and shall entitle said organization to consume
beer on the premises applied for only. Such license shall be free, except for
application costs of the County Clerk.
   (G)   Class “G” license. A Class “G” license shall be issued to a resort
only, as defined in this chapter, and shall entitle said hotel to sell in the
place named therein, by the drink, to be consumed on the premises as well as in
unbroken original packages, as defined in this chapter, and not to be consumed
on the premises, but not for resale. The annual fee for such license shall be
$1,000.
   (H)   Class “H” license. A Class “H” license shall be issued to a state
licensed retailer and shall entitle said retailer to transfer a portion of its
alcoholic liquor inventory from its retail licensed premises to a specified
location and to sell, or offer for sale at retail, only upon the premises
specified in the license, the transferred alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption. The transferred inventory shall not be offered for resale in any
form to any other entity. The duration of the license will be for a specified
period not to exceed 15 days in any 12-month period. The fee for such license
shall be $10.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995; Ord. 2007-11, passed - -)
§ 111.028  TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for
one year from date issued unless sooner revoked or suspended. The license fee
shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a license at the time the
application for a license is submitted to the Liquor Control Commissioner, as
herein provided. In the event the license application is denied, the license
fee shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited with the
County Treasurer, who shall deposit such fees in the County General Fund.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be filed with the County Clerk.
Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the address and
description of the premises for which they are granted and the dates of their
issuance and expiration.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.029  NATURE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for and not to exceed one year after issued, unless sooner
revoked, as in this chapter authorized and provided, and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable voluntarily or involuntarily or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated.
   (B)   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that
executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased licensee and the
trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of such estate and may
exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee, after
the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the
expiration of such license.
   (C)   The licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes; provided,
that the renewal privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested
right and may be denied by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are as binding on the licensee
receiving the licenses from the county as if said provisions were incorporated
into said license itself. All licensees now holding licenses are subject to the
provisions of this chapter the same as if said chapter were in full force and
effect at the time said licenses were issued and those regulations are in
addition to those imposed by the state.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
§ 111.030  LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited locations.
      (1)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant services, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been
established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of the provisions of
this chapter nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school where such
church or school has been established within such 100 feet since the issuance
of the original license.
      (2)   In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured
to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational
programs and not to property boundaries.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to
a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
   (B)   Change of location.
      (1)   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only on the premises described in the application and license. Such
location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued
by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (2)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the new location is
a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this
state and this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.031  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Powers of the Liquor Control Commissioner. The Liquor Control
Commissioner shall have the following powers, functions and duties with respect
to licenses granted under this chapter.
      (1)   In addition to, and not limited by, the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific sections of this chapter, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for up 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued
under this chapter for any violation of state law pertaining to the sale of
alcoholic liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee.
      (2)   The Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any liquor
license if the licensee makes any false statement or misrepresentation in the
application for a license.
      (3)   The Liquor Control Commissioner may enter, or authorize any law
enforcing officer to enter, at any time, upon any premises licensed to
determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or the laws of the
state pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor have been or are being
violated at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection
therewith.
   (B)   Complaint by residents. Any five residents of the county shall have
the right to file a complaint with the Liquor Control Commissioner stating that
any licensee under this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this
chapter, or any amendments hereto, or of any of the statutes of the state,
enacted with reference to the control of liquor. Such complaint shall be in
writing and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice; hearing.
      (1)   The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or if any valid ordinance or
resolution enacted by the County Board, or any applicable rule or regulation
established by the County Liquor Control Commissioner, which is not
inconsistent with law. However, no such license shall be so revoked or
suspended, except after a public hearing by the Liquor Control Commissioner
with a three days’ written notice to the licensee, affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend.
      (2)   The service of such notice may be made by leaving a copy of such
notice at the place of business of such licensee with some person over the age
of 15 years and informing such person of the contents of such notice. The
return of the Sheriff as to the manner of service shall be sufficient.
      (3)   On the day set for hearing, if such licensee does not appear at the
time and place designated in such notice, the Liquor Control Commissioner may
proceed to hear said case the same as if said licensee were present and to
render a decision on the merits of the case.
      (4)   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five days after such
hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of such order
within the five days upon the licensee. The findings of the Liquor Control
Commissioner shall be predicated upon competent evidence.
   (D)   Appeals from order of Liquor Control Commissioner. Except as provided
in this section, any order or action of a Liquor Control Commissioner granting
or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending, or refusing to revoke
or suspend, a license or refusing for more than 30 days to grant a hearing upon
a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may be appealed by any person in
interest to the State Commission, in which event the matter of such order of
action of such Liquor Control Commissioner shall be tried de novo by the State
Commission as expeditiously as circumstances permit.
   (E)   Revocation of license after conviction. Whenever any licensee shall be
convicted of any violation of this chapter, the licenses of said licensee may,
in the discretion of the Liquor Control Commissioner, be revoked and forfeited
and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited and it shall thereafter be
unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this chapter for said
licensee to continue to operate under said license.
   (F)   Revocation of license when employee convicted. Whenever any officer,
director, manager or other employee in a position of authority of any licensee
under the chapter shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while
engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon the premises
described by said license, said license may be revoked and the fees paid
thereon forfeited both as to the holder of said license and as to said premises
if said licensee had himself or herself been convicted.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
PROHIBITED ACTS AND SALES
§ 111.045  DRINKING ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to drink any alcoholic liquor on any public streets,
public alleys, public sidewalks and other public ways in the county that are
not included in said license, unless authorized at a regular or special meeting
of the County Board.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.046  GAMBLING.
    It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device or
instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic
liquor is sold or given away except for video gaming machines which are duly
licensed by the State Gaming Board and the county, for which all fees for the
machines have been timely paid, and the machines are otherwise operated in
accordance with the rules and regulations of 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., the State
Video Gaming Act, the rules of the State Gaming Board and the county.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995; Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-21-2012)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.047  CURB SERVICE AND PEDDLING.
   (A)   Curb service. No person shall sell, furnish or deliver any alcoholic
liquor at what is known as curb service or for consumption in any vehicle or on
any public street, public alley or public sidewalk or in any publicly owned and
controlled space or place that is not included in said license.
   (B)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
county.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.048  TRANSPORTING LIQUOR.
   No person shall, within the county, transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, public alley or public place not included in a duly issued liquor
license, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.049  DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   A person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer any disorder,
drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or disorderly
conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for the sale of
alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.050  PROHIBITED ACTS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No place for the practice of prostitution or lewdness shall be kept or
maintained in any place of business licensed under this chapter or in any room
or building adjacent thereto and no prostitution, or solicitation to
prostitution, shall be permitted in any place of business licensed by this
chapter.
   (B)   The keeping or maintaining of any place for the practice of
prostitution or lewdness, or permitting of prostitution or solicitation to or
for prostitution on the premises licensed by virtue of this chapter, or in any
room or building adjacent thereto, shall be sufficient grounds for the
revocation of such license by the local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   (1)   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee shall permit
or allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee
or employees or any such entertainment in which topless or bottomless persons
participate within the licensed premises. Nor shall any such entertainment be
performed within the licensed premises by any entertainer, employee or any
guest or patron or anyone else within the licensed premises in which any such
person is topless and/or bottomless.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, BOTTOMLESS means wearing
transparent clothing or material or being naked or substantially without
clothing or covering of the body from the waist downward to a point on the
body, which point would cover the genital area of the body and TOPLESS means
wearing transparent clothing or material or being naked or substantially
without clothing or covering of the breast area of the body.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.051  PURCHASE OR GIFT; UNDERAGE.
   (A)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or accept a gift of
alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
   (B)   Neither shall any person under the age of 21 years represent that he
or she is 21 years of age or over for the purpose of buying, accepting or
receiving alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.052  CONSUMPTION ON STREETS.
   (A)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under 21 years of
age is forbidden and no person, regardless of age, shall drink any alcoholic
liquor on any public street, public sidewalk, public alley or in any publicly
owned or controlled space that is not included in said license. Provided,
however, that in the event of a county fair or other similar county affair, and
during said fair or other activity, beer or wine may be consumed in a publicly
owned or controlled space at which the county fair is to be conducted.
   (B)   Provided further that alcoholic liquor may be consumed on county owned
or controlled property located within the county limits if:
      (1)   There is on display on said property a valid current county liquor
license;
      (2)   All other provisions of the ordinances of the county regulating
possession, delivery or sale of intoxicating liquors are met; and
      (3)   Said person possessing the liquor license receives a permit from
the Liquor Control Commissioner and registers with the County Clerk.
   (C)   These rights shall be for special events only.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.053  IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No holder of a liquor license, or his or her agents or employees,
shall sell any alcoholic liquor to any persons under 21 years of age.
   (B)   The licensee, or his or her agents or employees, shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (C)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface, possess, carry or use a
false or forged identification card.
   (D)   If a licensee, or his or her agents or employees, believe, or have
reason to believe, that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall,
before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of
positive identification containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in
the performance of his or her official duties.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.054  DELIVERY TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
21 years of age, to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her
to be an habitual drunkard, a spendthrift, insane, mentally ill or deficient
person or one in need of mental treatment.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.055  UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person for whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.056  POSTING WARNING.
   (A)   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold there shall
be displayed, at all times, in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the County Clerk and which shall read as follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
      YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $500 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or permit any minor to be
or remain in any room or place adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room
or place where such licensed premises are located; provided that this division
(B) shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian on any licensed premises defined in this chapter as a club,
restaurant, hotel or resort.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.057  MINOR SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed
premises.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.058  MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand, known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of said alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to
be done, shall forfeit to the state said alcoholic liquor and said packages and
containers and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999  PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
Each violation is a separate and distinct offense hereunder subjecting the
violator to separate and distinct penalties, as well as constituting grounds
for either the revocation or suspension of the said license. Each day a
violation continues will be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 9-19-1995)
CHAPTER 112:  FOOD SAFETY
Section
Generally
   
112.01   Rules and regulations
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Permits
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Examination and condemnation; food and/or equipment
   
112.06   Suspected infection; procedure
   
112.07   Food establishments outside jurisdiction of health authority
   
112.08   Plan review; future construction
   
112.09   Effective date
Home Kitchen Food Operations
   
112.20   Generally
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 112.01  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The current edition of rules and regulations promulgated by the State
Department of Public Health pertaining to food service establishments and
retail food stores are hereby adopted by reference. Three copies of each set
shall be on file in the County Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED. The condition of any food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health;
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation or in
excess of such tolerances if one has been established;
      (3)   If it consists, in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or
decomposed substance or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption;
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packed or held under unsanitary
conditions whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may
have been rendered injurious to health;
      (5)   If it is, in whole or in part, the product of a diseased animal or
animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter; or
      (6)   If its containers are composed, in whole or in part, of any
poisonous or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to
health.
   PERMIT HOLDER. An individual, a firm, partnership, company, corporation,
trustee, association and any public or private entity who is directly or
indirectly responsible for the operation of a food service establishment.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department or
an authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
food service establishment or retail food store within the county who does not
possess a valid permit issued to him or her by the Regulatory Authority. Only a
person who complies with the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to
receive and retain such a permit. Permits shall not be transferable from one
person to another person or place. A valid permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in view of the public in every food service establishment.
   (B)   Expiration. Permits for permanent food service establishments and
retail food stores shall expire one year following the date of issuance.
Permits for temporary food service establishments and temporary retail food
stores shall be issued for a period of time not to exceed 14 days.
   (C)   Issuance of permits.
      (1)   Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment or
retail food store or to renew an expired permit shall make written application
for a permit on forms provided by the Regulatory Authority.
      (2)   Such application shall include:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and address and whether such applicant
is an individual, firm or corporation and a partnership;
         (b)   The names and type of proposed food service establishment or
retail food store; and
         (c)   The signature of the applicant or applicants.
      (3)   Upon receipt of such an application, the Regulatory Authority shall
make an inspection of the establishment to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. When inspection reveals that the applicable
requirements of this chapter have been met, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant by the Regulatory Authority. Temporary permits may be issued for a
time period not to exceed 60 days,  in order for the food service operation to
come into compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Renewal of permits. Whenever the inspection for renewal of a permit
reveals serious or repeated violations of this chapter, the permit will not be
issued and the Regulatory Authority shall notify the applicant immediately
thereof. Such notice shall state the reasons for not renewing the permit. Such
notice shall also state that an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided for
the applicant at a time and place designated by the Regulatory Authority. Such
hearing shall be scheduled not later than ten days from the date of the notice.
The notice referred to in this section shall be delivered to the applicant in
person by the Regulatory Authority or may be sent by registered mail, return
receipt requested. A permit which has expired shall be removed from the
establishment by the Regulatory Authority.
   (E)   Suspension of permits.
      (1)   Permits may be suspended temporarily by the Regulatory Authority
for failure of the permit holder to comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Whenever a permit holder or operator has failed to comply with any
notice issued under the provisions of §§
112.04 through
112.06, the permit holder or operator shall be notified in writing that the
permit is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an
opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request for a hearing
is filed with the Regulatory Authority by the permit holder.
      (2)   Upon suspension of the permit, the permit shall be removed from the
establishment by the Regulatory Authority and returned to the Health
Department. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Regulatory Authority finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a
food service establishment or retail food store which, in his or her judgment,
constitute a substantial hazard to the public health, he or she may, without
warning, notice or hearing, issue a written notice to the permit holder or
operator citing such condition, specifying the corrective action to be taken
and specifying the time period within which such action shall be taken and, if
deemed necessary, such order shall state that the permit is immediately
suspended and all operations as a food service establishment or retail food
store are to be immediately discontinued.
      (3)   Any person to whom such an order is issued shall comply immediately
therewith but, upon written petition to the Regulatory Authority, shall be
afforded a hearing as soon as possible. Permits may be suspended temporarily by
the Regulatory Authority for failure of the permit holder to comply with
notices or citations issued for violation of 410 ILCS 82, the Smoke-Free
Illinois Act. Whenever a permit holder or operator has received a Smoke-Free
Illinois citation and failed to request a hearing within ten calendar days or
pay the fine within 28 calendar days or failed to obey the findings and final
order of a State Department of Public Health administrative law judge, the
permit holder or operator shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon
service of the notice, immediately suspended.
   (F)   Reinstatement of suspended permits. Any person whose permit has been
suspended may, at any time, make application for a reinspection for the purpose
of reinstatement of the permit. Within ten days following receipt of a written
request, including a statement signed by the applicant that, in his or her
opinion, the conditions causing suspension of the permit have been corrected,
the Regulatory Authority shall make a reinspection. If the applicant is
complying with the requirements of this chapter, including payment of all fines
originating from enforcement of the Smoke-Free Illinois Act, the permit shall
be reinstated.
   (G)   Revocation of permits. For serious or repeated violations of any of
the requirements of this chapter or for interference with the Regulatory
Authority in the performance of his or her duties, the permit may be
permanently revoked after an opportunity for a hearing has been provided by the
Regulatory Authority. Prior to such action, the Regulatory Authority shall
notify the permit holder in writing, stating the reasons for which the permit
is subject to revocation and advising that the permit shall be permanently
revoked at the end of five days following service of such notice, unless a
request for a hearing is filed with the Regulatory Authority by the permit
holder within such five-day period. A permit may be suspended for a cause
pending its revocation or a hearing relative thereto.
   (H)   Failure to comply. When a food service establishment fails to comply
with any provision of §§
112.04 through
112.06, the Regulatory Authority shall issue a citation notice to the permit
holder. The citation notice shall state the date, time and place the permit
holder is to appear in the Circuit Court. Upon conviction, the permit holder
shall be subject to the penalty specified under §
112.99.
   (I)   Hearing. The hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted
by the Regulatory Authority at a time and place designated by it. Any oral
testimony given at a hearing shall be reported verbatim and the presiding
officer shall make provision for sufficient copies of the transcript. The
Regulatory Authority shall make a final finding based upon the complete hearing
record and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order considered in
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
holder of the permit by the Regulatory Authority.
   (J)   Application after revocation. Whenever a revocation of a permit has
become final, the holder of the revoked permit may make written application for
a new permit.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspections. The Regulatory Authority shall inspect and
regulate each food service establishment within the county as specified in the
77 Ill. Adm. Code,§ 615.310, and any subsequent revisions thereto, and shall
make as many additional inspections and reinspections as are necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Regulatory Authority, after proper identification,
shall be permitted to enter at any reasonable time any food service
establishment or retail food store in the county for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter. He or she shall be
permitted to examine the records of the establishment to obtain pertinent
information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used and
persons employed.
   (C)   Report of inspection.
      (1)   Whenever an inspection of a food service establishment or retail
food store is made, the findings shall be recorded on a inspection report that
is substantially equivalent to that of the State Department of Public Health
retail food establishment inspection report.
      (2)   One copy of the inspection report form should be furnished to the
person in charge of the establishment. The inspection report form shall set
forth a weighted point value for each requirement. The rating score of the
establishment shall be the total of the weighted point values for all
violations subtracted from 100 and shall be shown on all copies of the report.
   (D)   Correction of violations.
      (1)   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable
period of time for the correction of the violations found and correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified, in accordance
with the following provisions.
         (a)   If an imminent health hazard exists, such as complete lack of
refrigeration or sewage backup into the establishment, the establishment shall
immediately cease food service operations. Operations shall not be resumed
until authorized by the Regulatory Authority.
         (b)   All violations of four- or five-point weighted items shall be
corrected as soon as possible but, in any event, within ten days following
inspection.
         (c)   All one- or two-point weighted items shall be corrected as soon
as possible but, in any event, by the time of the next routine inspection.
         (d)   When the rating score of the establishment is less than 60, the
establishment shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within 48 hours. One or more reinspections will be conducted at reasonable time
intervals to assure correction.
      (2)   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any
time limits for corrections may result in cessation of food service operations.
An opportunity for a hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations
or both will be provided if a written request is filed with the Regulatory
Authority within ten days following cessation of operations. If a request for a
hearing is received, a hearing shall be held within 20 days of receipt of the
request.
      (3)   Whenever a food service establishment or retail food store is
required under the provisions of division (D) above to cease operations, it
shall not resume operations until it is shown on reinspection that the
conditions responsible for the order to cease operations no longer exist.
Opportunity for reinspection shall be offered within a reasonable time.
   (E)   Service of notices. Notices provided for under this division (E) shall
be deemed to have been properly served when the original of the inspection
report form or other notice has been delivered personally to the permit holder
or person in charge or such notice has been sent by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the permit holder.
A copy of such notice shall be filed with the records of the Regulatory
Authority.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.05  EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION; FOOD AND/OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Food.
      (1)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Regulatory Authority as
often as necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The
Regulatory Authority may, upon written notice to the owner or person in charge,
place a hold order on any food which he or she determines, or has probable
cause to believe, to be unwholesome or otherwise adulterated or misbranded.
      (2)   Under a hold order, food shall be permitted to be suitably stored.
It shall be unlawful for any person to move or alter a hold order notice or tag
placed on food by the Regulatory Authority. Neither such food nor the
containers thereof shall be relabeled, repackaged or reprocessed, altered,
disposed of or destroyed without permission of the Regulatory Authority, except
on an order by a court of competent jurisdiction. After the owner or person in
charge has had a hearing, as provided in §
112.03(I), and on the basis of evidence produced at such hearing, or on the
basis of examination in the event of written request for a hearing is not
received within ten days, the Regulatory Authority may vacate the hold order or
may, by written order, direct the owner or person in charge of food which was
placed under the hold order to denature or destroy such food or bring it into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such order shall be stayed if
the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three days.
   (B)   Equipment.
      (1)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is found
to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsuitable for use or insanitary, such
equipment shall be taken out of use and a hold order placed on said items by
the Regulatory Authority. Such equipment may not be put back into service until
written permission is obtained from the Regulatory Authority.
      (2)    It shall be unlawful for any person to move or alter a hold order
notice or tag placed on equipment by the Regulatory Authority. Such equipment
will not be altered, disposed of or destroyed without permission of the
Regulatory Authority except on an order in a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   After the owner or person in charge has had a hearing, as provided
in §
112.03(I), and on the basis of the evidence produced at such hearing, or on the
basis of examination in the event of a written request for a hearing is not
received within ten days, the Regulatory Authority may vacate the hold order or
may, by written notice, direct the owner or person in charge of the equipment
which was placed under the hold order to remove such equipment or bring it into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such order shall be stayed if
the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three days.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  SUSPECTED INFECTION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the Regulatory Authority has reasonable cause to suspect the
possibility of disease transmission from any food service establishment
employee, it shall secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee or make
any other investigation as may be indicated and take appropriate action.
   (B)   The Regulatory Authority may require any or all of the following
measures:
      (1)   Immediate exclusion of the employee from any food handling
activities;
      (2)   Immediate closure of the establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Regulatory Authority, no further danger of disease outbreak
exists;
      (3)   Restriction of the employee’s services to some area of the
establishment where there will be no danger of transmitting disease; and
      (4)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee or
other employees and of his, her or their bodily discharges.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.07  FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE JURISDICTION OF HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   Food from establishments outside the jurisdiction of the Regulatory
Authority of the county may be sold in the county if such food establishments
conform to the provisions of this chapter or to substantially equivalent
provisions. To determine extent of compliance with such provisions, the
Regulatory Authority may accept reports from responsible authorities in other
jurisdictions where such food establishments are located.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.08  PLAN REVIEW; FUTURE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever a food service establishment or retail food store is
constructed or extensively remodeled, and whenever an existing structure is
converted to use as a food service establishment or retail food store, properly
prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the Regulatory Authority for review and
approval before construction, remodeling or conversion is begun. The plans and
specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical
plans and construction materials of work areas.
   (B)   The Regulatory Authority shall approve the plans and specifications if
they meet the requirements of this chapter. No food service establishment or
retail food store shall be constructed, extensively remodeled or converted
except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Regulatory
Authority.
   (C)   Whenever plans and specifications are required by division (A) above
to be submitted to the Regulatory Authority, the Regulatory Authority shall
inspect the food service establishment or retail food store prior to the start
of operations to determine compliance with the approved plans and
specifications and with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 112.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall be in
full effect from and after adoption as provided by law and, at that time, all
ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with said ordinance are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
HOME KITCHEN FOOD OPERATIONS
§ 112.20  GENERALLY.
   (A)   The County Board hereby adopts and incorporates the provisions of the
Illinois Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.), as
amended.
   (B)   Home kitchen operations, as defined by the Illinois Food Handling and
Enforcement Act, as amended, are permitted within the county, provided all
requirements of the Illinois Food Handling Regulation and Enforcement Act and
other provisions of this section are complied with by the producers and sellers
of said products.
   (C)   Home kitchen operations which propose to produce any non-potentially
hazardous foods for sale, as defined by the Illinois Food Handling and
Enforcement Act, shall be registered with the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County
Health Department; shall meet the requirements of Franklin Williamson Bi-County
Health Department for training in the safe handling of food products for home
kitchens; and shall comply with all regulations and guidelines for the safe
handling of food. Monthly gross sales from any home kitchen operation may not
exceed $1,000. A written notice shall be provided to each purchaser as follows:
      “This product was produced in a home kitchen not subject to public health
inspection and may also possess common food allergens”
   (D)   The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department is appointed by
the County Board to oversee the operations of home kitchen operations as
defined herein and to adopt procedures for the registration, training, and
operation of home kitchens in the county. The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County
shall inspect any home kitchen operation in the event of a complaint or disease
outbreak and may, at Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department’s
discretion, issue binding orders upon any Home kitchen operation to: comply
with safe food handling requirements; modify home kitchen practices; suspend or
terminate the home kitchen operation; as deemed to be in the public health and
welfare.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any rules and
regulations adopted herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more
than $500. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing
such violations. Each day upon which such violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-17-2013)
CHAPTER 113:  AMBULANCE SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Authority; contracts and rules of operation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE(S). Ground only medical transportation service(s) provided
by means of an ambulance, medi-car, service-car or a taxi and includes
emergency and non-emergency transport. AMBULANCE SERVICE(S) does not mean a
friend, family member or good samaritan who provides transport for a sick or
injured person without charge. AMBULANCE SERVICE(S) does not mean
transportation of the sick or injured via a helicopter or by airplane.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 113.02  AUTHORITY; CONTRACTS AND RULES OF OPERATION.
   The County Board does hereby ordain, adopt and decree as follows.
   (A)   The County Board may enter into contracts as it deems appropriate with
private persons, hospitals, corporations or other governmental units for the
provision and operation of ambulance service or subsidize the service thereof
within the county.
   (B)   The County Board may limit the number of ambulance services operating
within the county as it deems appropriate to meet the needs of the citizens of
the county.
   (C)   The County Board may establish regulations not inconsistent with the
statutes or regulations of the Department of Public Health relating to
ambulance service and may fix, charge and collect fees for ambulance service
not exceeding the reasonable cost of the service.
   (D)   No ambulance service may operate in the county unless specifically
authorized by the County Board or by a hospital facility or unit of local
government within the county. This prohibition includes both emergency and non-
emergency operations or transports, unless one or more of the following
exceptions exists.
      (1)   The West Frankfort Fire Department is currently providing emergency
ambulance service to Denning and Frankfort Townships as part of their fire
protection district in the county and are excepted from this prohibition.
      (2)   In the event an ambulance service is operating under a mutual aid
agreement with the county, a unit of local government located within the county
or any ambulance service which is duly authorized by the county, then said
ambulance service is excepted from this prohibition.
      (3)   Ambulance service(s) providing transportation to a location within
the county or traveling through the county in which the dispatch for service
does not originate in the county are excepted from this prohibition.
      (4)   Ambulance service(s) operating within the county after the
declaration of a disaster in an area of the county by any legally authorized
governmental entity are excepted from this prohibition.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-21-2012)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who provides ambulance service within the county in
violation of this chapter may be fined up to $500 for each violation. Each non-
authorized transport of a sick or injured person shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-21-2012)
CHAPTER 114:  POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
Section
   
114.01   Authority
   
114.02   Application
   
114.03   Petition
   
114.04   Site plan
   
114.05   Proposed operation procedure
   
114.06   Topographical survey
   
114.07   Traffic plans
   
114.08   State permit
   
114.09   Application attachments
   
114.10   Insurance
   
114.11   Filing fee
   
114.12   Filing
   
114.13   Waiver
§ 114.01  AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., the
county shall require applicants for a regional pollution control facility, or
applicants for site approval to modify the development of an existing facility,
to comply with the rules and regulations set forth hereinafter.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.02  APPLICATION.
   An application for a regional pollution control facility shall consist of an
application package including a petition and other attachments, as set forth in
the sections below, and shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk. A
minimum of 12 complete copies of the application package shall be maintained
for public inspection at the office of the County Clerk and copies may be
obtained upon the payment of the actual cost of reproduction to the County
Clerk.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.03  PETITION.
   Each application shall be supported by a written petition which sets forth
the following:
   (A)   The identification of the applicant and owner and, if the proposed
site is owned in trust, the beneficiaries;
   (B)   If the applicant is a private corporation, the names and ownership
interest of the shareholders and the officers;
   (C)   The legal description of the proposed site;
   (D)   A description of the proposed facility, its operation and the expected
longevity thereof;
   (E)   The geographic area to be served by the proposed facility and a
statement of the needs of such geographic area of such a facility;
   (F)   A list of the existing regional pollution control facilities within
the area proposed to be served and, with respect to each such facility, the
following information shall be provided:
      (1)   Location;
      (2)   Size;
      (3)   Owner and/or operator;
      (4)   Type of pollution control facility;
      (5)   Remaining capacity;
      (6)   Probable life of the facility; and
      (7)   Types of wastes it receives.
   (G)   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment or storage of all
wastes proposed for the site and the origins of these wastes;
   (H)   A description of the geologic and hydrogeologic character of the site
including core samples and background analysis for ground water, surface water
and air;
   (I)   Reasons supporting approval of the application; and
   (J)   A prayer for site approval.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.04  SITE PLAN.
   Each application package shall include a site plan containing details of the
proposed facility, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Cross-sections;
   (B)   Existing wells within 500 feet of the site;
   (C)   All monitoring wells;
   (D)   Fences, buildings and other structures;
   (E)   Roads, entrances and driveways; and
   (F)   Core sample locations on and within 200 feet of the site.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.05  PROPOSED OPERATION PROCEDURE.
   Each application package shall include a statement of the plan of operation
for the proposed facility including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Method of landfilling, incineration, resource recovery or other
process;
   (B)   Hours of operation;
   (C)   Personnel;
   (D)   Litter, vector, dust and odor control;
   (E)   Surface drainage and erosion control;
   (F)   Fire control;
   (G)   Corrective actions for spills and other operational accidents and
emergency response capability;
   (H)   If applicable, the stages of development or use; and
   (I)   An end use plan.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.06  TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY.
   Each application package shall contain a detailed topographic survey of the
proposed site and the surrounding area within 500 feet which indicates land use
and, if applicable, the boundary of the 100-year flood plain as determined by
the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.07  TRAFFIC PLANS.
   Each application package shall include a statement or report of traffic
information regarding the proposed site including the anticipated number of
vehicles and their size, weight and direction of movement.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.08  STATE PERMIT.
   Each application package shall contain the request for a permit made to the
State Environmental Protection Agency, if any such request has been made by the
applicant.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.09  APPLICATION ATTACHMENTS.
   Each application package shall contain all studies, maps, reports, permits
or exhibits which the applicant desires the County Board to consider in
deliberating site approval.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.10  INSURANCE.
   Each application package shall include a description of the insurance
policies carried by the applicant to cover single accidents such as fires or
explosions and non-sudden accidental occurrences.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.11  FILING FEE.
   (A)   Each application for a new landfill site shall include a $300,000
application fee to cover the reasonable and necessary costs, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Notice costs;
      (2)   Court reporter costs;
      (3)   Transcription costs;
      (4)   County consultant costs;
      (5)   Hearing officer costs; and
      (6)   Other expenses incurred by the county in conducting the review of
the request for site approval, the subsequent public hearing and the site
approval decision.
   (B)   Each application for a permit modification or expansion of an existing
site shall include a $150,000 application fee for the reasonable and necessary
costs as set forth above. Any portion of the application fee that remains
unexpended at the conclusion of the hearing process shall be returned to the
applicant.
   (C)   Should there be any additional costs incurred by the county, in excess
of the application fee, the applicant shall bear any and all additional costs.
Said costs in excess of the application fee shall be paid by the applicant
within seven days of receipt from the County Clerk of a billing showing said
expenses. Said excess costs shall be billed to applicant on a periodic basis as
they accrue. Any failure of applicant to pay excess costs within said seven
days shall be grounds for rejecting the application.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.12  FILING.
   No application for site approval shall be deemed to have been filed or
accepted for filing unless all of the requirements of this chapter have been
met and the County Clerk shall not give a receipt or other indication of the
filing until such time as it is determined that the application complies with
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 114.13  WAIVER.
   Upon request, the County Board may, for good cause, waive any of the
requirements of this chapter. Any request for waiver shall be set forth in the
application package and shall state the basis for the request to waive,
however, the application shall not be deemed filed or accepted for filing, and
the Clerk shall not issue a receipt, until the County Board has considered and
acted upon the request for waiver.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-16-1992)
CHAPTER 115:  VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
115.01   Adoption by reference
   
115.02   Licenses
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The contents, definitions, rules and regulations of the State Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. are adopted by the county and made a part of this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 115.02  LICENSES.
   Any person or entity who obtains a license to operate a video game machine,
as defined by the State Video Gaming Act, in an establishment which is under
the jurisdiction of the county, which shall include any establishments that
distribute liquor, fraternal organizations, truck stops or other establishments
in the unincorporated areas of the county which obtain a license to operate a
video gaming machine from the State Gaming Board, shall register said license
with the County Clerk and shall pay a yearly fee of $25 for each video gaming
machine licensed by the State Gaming Board to the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-21-2012)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who operates an unlicensed video gaming machine in the
county and fails to pay the county yearly fee for a state-licensed video gaming
machine or otherwise violates any of the provisions of this chapter or the
State Video Gaming Act shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 for each
violation. This penalty is in addition to any other penalties provided by the
laws of the state or the United States of America.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 116:  RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Requirement of license
   
116.03   Application for a license for a raffle
   
116.04   Application for a license for a poker run
   
116.05   Licensee qualifications
   
116.06   License issuance
   
116.07   Conduct of raffles and poker runs
   
116.08   Manager; bond
   
116.09   Records
   
116.10   Limited construction
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.  An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION.  An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.  An organization of persons having a common
interest, the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its
members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
lessen the burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be
cared for by the government.
   HARDSHIP.  A non-profit fundraising organization that has not been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license that the county determines to be organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or
group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster.
   KEY LOCATION.  The location where the poker run concludes and the prize or
prizes are awarded.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION.  An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   LICENSEE.  An organization which has been issue a license to operate a
raffle.
   NET PROCEEDS.  The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle or poker run.
   NON-PROFIT.  An organization or institution organized and conducted on a
not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of
the operation.
   POKER RUN.  An event organized by an organization licensed under this
chapter in which participants travel to multiple predetermined locations,
including a key location, drawing a playing card or equivalent item at each
location, in order to assemble a facsimile of a poker hand or other numeric
score. POKER RUN includes dice runs, marble runs, or other events where the
objective is to build the best hand or highest score by obtaining an item at
each location.
   RAFFLE.  A form of lottery, as defined in Section 28-2(b) of the Criminal
Code of 2012, conducted by an organization licensed under this Act, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION.  Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION.  An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows,
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.02  REQUIREMENT OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization or other entity to conduct or operate a raffle, or to sell, offer
for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle
without having first obtained a license therefore pursuant to this chapter and
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization or other entity to conduct or operate a poker run without having
first obtained a license therefore pursuant to this chapter and the Raffles and
Poker Runs Act.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)  Penalty, §
10.99
§ 116.03  APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE FOR A RAFFLE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application therefore with
the County Clerk on the forms provided by the County Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for licenses under this section must contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle, such as,
religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans or other;
      (3)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
      (5)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle;
      (6)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle;
      (7)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold;
      (8)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold;
      (9)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (10)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
      (11)   The date, time, and name and address of the location or locations
at which winning chances will be determined;
      (12)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization; and
      (13)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (C)   An application for a license to conduct or operate a raffle shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee. If the aggregate prize value is
$1,000 or less, the fee shall be $25; if the aggregate prize value is more than
$1,000, the fee shall be $25. Such fee shall be paid by certified funds, cash,
or money order. The County Clerk shall refer the application to County Board
Chairman.
   (D)   The maximum aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise
awarded in a single raffle shall be $50,000; the maximum retail value of each
prize awarded by a license in a single raffle shall be $50,000; the maximum
price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold shall be $100;
the maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold shall be
180 days.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.04  APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE FOR A POKER RUN.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a poker run shall file an application therefore
with County Clerk on the forms provided by the County Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for licenses under this section must contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle or poker
run, such as, religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans or
other;
      (3)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, and any other members responsible
for the conduct and operation of the raffle or poker run;
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of all locations at which
the poker run will be conducted;
      (6)   The time period during which the poker run will be conducted;
      (7)   The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which the winning chances will be determined;
      (8)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization; and
      (9)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (C)   An application for a license to conduct or operate a poker run shall
be accompanied by a nonrefundable $25 filing fee. Such fee shall be paid by
certified funds, cash or money order. The County Clerk shall refer the
application to the County Board Chairman.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.05  LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Raffle licenses and poker run licenses shall be issued only to bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or
veterans’ organizations that operate without profit to their members and which
have been in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately
before making application for a license and which have had during that entire
five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects,
or to a non-profit fundraising organization that the County Board Chairman
determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance
to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster. The
County Board Chairman may waive the five-year requirement under this division
for a bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational,
or veterans’ organization that applies for a license to conduct a raffle or
poker run if the organization is a local organization that is affiliated with
and chartered by a national or state organization that meets the five-year
requirement.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any raffle or poker run license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections (1), (2),
or (3) has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest or in which such person
is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections (1), (2),
or (3) is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections (1), (2),
or (3) is to participate in the management or operation of a poker run as
defined in this section.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.06  LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The County Board Chairman shall review all raffle license applications
and all poker run license applications. The County Board Chairman shall, within
30 days from the date of application, accept or reject a raffle or poker run
license application. If an application is accepted, the County Board Chairman
shall forthwith issue a raffle or poker run license to the applicant.
   (B)   A raffle license or poker run license shall specify:
      (1)   The area or areas within the county in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued or a poker run will be conducted;
      (2)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued
or a poker run will be conducted; and
      (3)   The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which the winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be non-transferrable.
   (D)   A license shall be valid for one raffle event or one poker run only,
unless the County Board Chairman specifically authorized a specified number of
raffles or poker runs to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed
one year.
   (E)   A raffle license or poker run license may be suspended or revoked for
any misrepresentation on the application, any violation of this chapter or
state law, or when such raffle or poker run or portion thereof is conducted so
as to constitute a public nuisance or to disturb the peace, health, safety or
welfare.
   (F)   Prominent display of license:
      (1)   A raffle license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the winning chances.
      (2)   A poker run license shall be prominently displayed at each location
at which the poker run is conducted or operated.
   (G)   Miscellaneous provision for poker run license: Any poker run license
issued shall cover the entire poker run, including locations other than the key
location. Each license issued shall include the name and address of each
location at which the poker run will be conducted.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.07  CONDUCT OF RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS.
   (A)   The operation and conduct of raffles and poker runs are subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to
conduct that game.
      (2)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (3)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter. A premises where a poker run is held is not required to
obtain a license if the name and location of the premises is listed as a
predetermined location on the license issued for the poker run and the premises
does not charge for use of the premises.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the raffle license and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified on the license for a raffle. A playing card or equivalent
item may be drawn only within the area specified on the poker run license and
winning hands or scores may be determined only at those locations specified on
said license.
      (6)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances or poker runs only with the permission of a
parent or guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area
where winning chances in a raffle or winning hands or scores in a poker run are
being determined only when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   (B)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance on a raffle or a
winning hand or score in a poker run is determined, the lessor shall not be
criminally liable if the person who uses the premises for the determining of
winning chances does not hold a license issued by the county.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.08  MANAGER; BOND.
   (A)   All operations of and conduct of raffles and poker runs shall be under
the supervision of a single poker run manager designated by the organization.
The manager or operator of the raffle or poker run must be a bona fide member
of the organization holding the license for such a raffle or poker run and may
not receive any remuneration or profit for participating in the management or
operation of the raffle or poker run.
   (B)   The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of two times the
aggregate amount of total prizes to be raffled or given as detailed in the
application, conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or
her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the county not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (C)   The County Board Chairman is authorized to waive this bond requirement
by including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this chapter, provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.09  RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances or poker
runs shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for
each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances in a raffle or
winning hands or scores in a poker run are determined. All deductions from the
gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles or poker runs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue, and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles or poker runs. The person who accounts for the gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds from the operation of raffles or poker runs shall
not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles or poker runs shall
report monthly to its membership, and to the County Clerk, its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from raffles or poker runs, and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required by this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years
and the organization shall make available their records relating to operation
of poker runs for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   (E)   The county shall maintain the records required by this section in
compliance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act and the Local Records Act, 50
ILCS 205/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 116.10  LIMITED CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device other than
raffles or poker runs as provided for herein.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-19-2014)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW AND TRUANCY
CHAPTER 130:  CURFEW AND TRUANCY
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Curfew restrictions
   
130.03   Truancy restrictions
   
130.04   Establishment restrictions
   
130.05   Enforcement
   
130.06   Civil liability
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY CURFEW HOURS. The period from 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on the following day and the period between 12:00
midnight on Friday and Saturday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business, operated for a profit,
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another person;
or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public, or a substantial group of the
public, has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   TRUANCY CURFEW HOURS. The period of the day when the school that the minor
would normally attend is in session.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18, being any
of the following, to be present within the county and absent himself or herself
from attendance at school during session without the permission of his or her
parent or legal guardian:
         (a)   Enrolled in a public or private school within the county;
         (b)   A resident of the county enrolled in a public or private school
outside of said county; or
         (c)   A non-resident of the county, enrolled in any public or private
school outside of said county.
      (2)   The terms “minor” and “person under the age of 18” shall be
synonymous as used herein.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be present in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the county during
county curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by insufficient control, allow the minor to be present in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the county
during county curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) above or §
130.04 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian, custodian or
responsible adult;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian,
custodian or responsible adult without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate or intrastate travel with
the consent or authorization of a parent, guardian or custodian;
      (4)   Engaged in, going to or returning home from an employment activity
without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On a sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence;
      (7)   Engaged in, going to or returning home from an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults, sponsored by the
county, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution; and/or
      (9)   Emancipated pursuant to law.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor, who is subject to compulsory education
or to compulsory continuation education by statute or court order, to be
present in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
county during truancy curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by insufficient control, allow the minor to be present in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the county
during truancy curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense of prosecution under divisions (A) or (B) above or §
130.04 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or responsible adult if engaged
in an activity which would constitute an excused absence from the school from
which the minor would normally attend;
      (2)   Involved in an emergency;
      (3)   Going to, or returning from, a medical appointment without any
detour or stop;
      (4)   Engaged in, going to or returning from an employment activity
pursuant to cooperative school vocation program without any detour or stop;
      (5)   In possession of valid proof that the minor is a student who has
permission to leave the school campus;
      (6)   A bona fide participant in an alternative education or home
schooling program; or
      (7)   Engaged in, or subject to, an authorized or excused absence from
the school which the minor attends including, but not limited to, lunch
periods.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  ESTABLISHMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner, operator or any employee of an
establishment to allow a minor to be present or to remain upon the premises of
the establishment, in violation of §§
130.02 or
130.03 during county curfew hours or truancy curfew hours.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the owner,
operator or employee of the establishment, immediately upon discovery of a
minor reasonably believed to be in violation of §§
130.02 or
130.03, notified the Sheriff’s Department that the minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during county curfew hours or truancy curfew
hours and refused to leave the establishment after being advised to do so by
the owner, operator or employee.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every officer of the Sheriff’s Department, while on duty, is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of this
chapter, regardless of whether a citation is immediately issued, until the
parent, guardian or custodian of the minor shall take him or her into custody.
Such officer shall, immediately upon taking custody of the minor, reasonably
attempt to communicate with the parent, guardian or custodian of the minor
unless division (E) below is applicable. A parent, guardian or custodian must
take custody of the minor within one hour of the time of notice or be subject
to a charge of $25 per hour as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer or truant officer witnesses or has knowledge
based on reasonable grounds of a violation of this chapter by any person, such
person may be issued a citation. A citation or complaint may be made to a
police officer or truant officer by any person.
   (C)   A citation issued hereunder shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   State the name of the person being cited and the person’s address,
if known;
      (2)   Set forth the specific section of the chapter that was violated,
the date of the violation; and
      (3)   Be signed by the issuing police officer, truant officer or
complaining party.
   (D)   A minor cited for a citation under this chapter must attend a court
hearing or Truancy Review Board hearing on the citation and must be accompanied
at the hearing by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or any other adult
person having the legal care and custody of the minor. If any such person fails
to attend any court hearing with the minor and unless the interest of justice
would otherwise be served, the court may continue the hearing or shall issue a
notice or a rule to show cause to the person for sanctions or contempt of court
as determined by the court.
   (E)   Every member of the Sheriff’s Department, while on duty, is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of §
130.03 regardless whether a citation is issued, and to deliver and surrender
the minor to the lawful authorities of the school that the minor would normally
attend.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 130.06  CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   If a minor is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour
which requires the supervision of the minor by personnel of the Sheriff’s
Department, the parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the
legal care or custody of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable for
the costs therefor.
   (B)   The parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having legal
care or custody of the minor who has committed any offense of this chapter
shall be assessed and billed for the costs. The costs shall be recoverable in
any action enforcing any provision of this chapter or in a separate civil
action.
   (C)   In addition, the failure to pay the costs shall constitute a violation
of this chapter and subject the violator to the penalties described within §
130.99. In the event any action is filed, the liable party shall be responsible
for all court costs and any reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the city or
county collecting.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 and a separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed upon each day on which such
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In lieu of, or in addition to, a fine, a minor may be ordered to
attend counseling or to perform ten hours of court-approved community service
during times other than the minor’s hours of school attendance and/or the
minor’s parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having legal care or
custody of the minor may be ordered to attend a parenting class or series of
parenting classes or other counseling approved by the court or recommended by
the Truancy Review Board or to attend any program directly related to improving
school attendance and/or performance.
   (C)   In additional to any penalty imposed pursuant to divisions (A) or (B)
above the minor’s parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having
legal care or custody of the minor may be ordered to pay all amounts imposed as
a civil liability under §
130.06(A) and (B).
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 12-20-2005)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND HOUSING
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS AND HOUSING
Section
   
150.01   Building permits
   
150.02   Anti-displacement and relocation assistance
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit requirement.
      (1)   A building permit shall be required before the construction of any
new structure or building is initiated upon real property located in the county
and before the alteration of any existing structure or building located upon
real property in the county is initiated.
      (2)   The building permit shall be issued within 30 days after all facts
and pertinent data have been properly presented to the County Supervisor of
Assessments by the lawful landowner or owners.
      (3)   A record of all building permits shall be kept on file in the
office of the Supervisor of Assessments and copies shall be furnished, on
request, to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
or property affected.
   (B)   Filing fee. Any application for a building permit shall be accompanied
by a fee of $50. The fee for the same shall be paid to the Office of the
Supervisor of Assessments, except fees shall not be collected for agricultural
uses of land or buildings.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The county will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low-to-
moderate income dwelling units demolished or converted to use other than as
low-to-moderate income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with
funds provided under 42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq., the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, as amended.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the county will make public, and submit to Department of Commerce
and Community Affairs, the following information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low-to-moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low-to-moderate income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The county will provide relocation assistance, as described in the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, to each low-to-
moderate income household displaced by the demolition of housing or by the
conversion of a low-to-moderate income dwelling to another use as a direct
result of assisted activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the county will take the following steps to minimize the displacement
of persons from their homes:
      (1)   Minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low-to-
moderate income persons.
      (2)   Advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed to
demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Res. 2000-07, passed - -)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In the event construction of any structure, or alteration of any
existing structure, is commenced prior to obtaining a building permit from the
office of the Supervisor of Assessments, an additional fee of $50, for a total
of $100, will automatically be assessed.
      (2)   Failure to obtain a building permit for construction of any new
structure or building, or for any alteration of any existing structure or
building, shall result in a citation and fine being assessed by the Supervisor
of Assessments. The amount of the fine shall not exceed $500 for any one
violation of §
150.01.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-20-2007)
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Scope and purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Plat approval
   
151.05   Authority
   
151.06   Exceptions; subdivision plats
   
151.07   Recording
   
151.08   Fees
   
151.09   Effective date
Minimum Design Standards
   
151.20   General statement
   
151.21   Street design
   
151.22   Design standards
Review Process
   
151.35   Pre-application phase
   
151.36   Preliminary plat procedure
   
151.37   Preliminary plat requirements
   
151.38   Improvement plan procedure
   
151.39   Improvement plan requirements
   
151.40   Minor subdivision
   
151.41   Final plat procedure
   
151.42   Final plat requirements
Variances
   
151.55   Variances
   
151.56   Variation procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Certificates and Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  TITLE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall
officially be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of Franklin County,
Illinois”.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.02  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to control future developments of the
county and to promote and regulate the public health, safety and welfare of
persons living within the territory governed.  The provisions and regulations
shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying within the area of
jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   The authority of this chapter is found in 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
and 55 ILCS 5/5-1041.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor way used primarily for vehicular services access to the rear
or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivisions, including the area to be dedicated for street and
alley rights-of-way and public use.
   AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivisions, less the area to be dedicated for street and rights-
of-way and public use.
   AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC or ADT. The calculation of average traffic volumes in
both directions of travel in a time period greater than one day and less than
one year and divided by the number of days in that time period.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways or barriers
(except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
exterior boundary is a street or highway) or a combination of streets, public
parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines or waterways or corporate
boundary lines.
   BOND. A good and sufficient security meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Franklin County Board.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The Franklin County Engineer.
   CUL-DE-SAC. Street having only one end open for traffic and the other end
permanently terminated by a turnaround for vehicles.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses of land and the arrangement of easements,
lots and rights-of-ways, including specifications of materials, alignment,
grade and width of these elements.
   DRAINAGE WAY. A watercourse, gully, dry steam, creek or ditch which carries
stormwater runoff, which is subject to flooding or ponding, which is fed by
street or building gutters or by storm sewers or which serve the purpose of
draining water from the lands adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry steam,
creek or ditch.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for the use of an area of land by
the public, corporations or persons for specified uses and purposes.
   FRONTAGE. The length of any one property line of a premise that abuts a
street.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and stormwater) to be installed, or agreed to be
installed, by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the subdivision. Includes the furnishing of all materials, equipment,
work and services such as engineering, staking and supervision necessary to
construct all the improvements required in this chapter or any other
improvements that may be provided by the subdivider.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
in, or in conjunction with, the subdivision.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended to be separately owned, rented, developed or
otherwise used as a unit.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full
length upon streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
   LOT, WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at a
right angle to the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The rear lot line is the lot line most nearly parallel to,
and most remote from, the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than the front or rear lot line. A corner
lot line separating a lot from a street is called a STREET SIDE LOT LINE. A
side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called anINTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision with all lots with frontage upon an
existing street not involving any new streets or other rights-of-way, easements
and improvements or other provisions for public areas and facilities.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided. This includes any person or entity having either the dominion
and title to the land, a beneficial interest, an equitable interest or a
mortgagor’s lien to the land sought to be subdivided.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEEOR BOND. Any security in cash or equivalent approved by
the County Board to guarantee installation of any improvements.
   PLAT OFFICER. The person appointed by the County Board to administer the
provisions of this chapter.
   POST-DEVELOPMENT ADT. The current average daily traffic +10 (number of
proposed dwelling units).
   RE-SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTSOR CONTRACTS. Contracts entered into between private
parties and constituting a restriction on the use of all private property
within a subdivision for the benefit of the property owners and to provide
mutual protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend
to impair stability of values.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (R.O.W.). A strip of land over which the owner, by dedication
or any other legal means, has granted the right-of-use for streets, alleys,
ditches or for any other purpose.
   ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel ways, curbs and gutters.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   STREET. A public or private way for the purpose of vehicular traffic. The
term includes all facilities which normally occur within the right-of-way. It
also includes such other designations for a street as:
      (1)   Highway;
      (2)   Thoroughfare;
      (3)   Parkway;
      (4)   Throughway;
      (5)   Road;
      (6)   Pike;
      (7)   Avenue;
      (8)   Boulevard;
      (9)   Land Place;
      (10)   Drive; and
      (11)   Court or otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or a way for
pedestrian use only.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed which requires permanent or temporary
location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent or
temporary location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development or
any other uses or the establishment or dedication of a public street or alley
through a tract of land regardless of size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also
include all re-subdivisions of land or lots.
      (2)   A division of a parcel of land into two or more parts, any of which
is less than two acres or any division of land for the establishment or
dedication of a road, street or place through a tract of land regardless of
size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all re-subdivisions of land or
lots.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. For the purpose of design, classifications are as
follows:
      (1)   Level-grade of 0% to 8%;
      (2)   Rolling-grade of 8.1% to 15%; and
      (3)   Hilly-grade greater than 15%.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAVEL WAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.04  PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Unless otherwise excepted by provision of this chapter, the County
Board shall approve all subdivisions within the county unless such subdivision
lies within a municipality, or within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits, that has adopted the provisions of this chapter and is operating under
a comprehensive plan that has been filed with the County Clerk.
   (B)   If such subdivision occurs, approval shall be obtained from the
municipality and the county. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction
upon the land than is imposed or required by such existing provision of law,
ordinance or restrictive covenants, the lawful provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.05  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority of this chapter is found in 55 ILCS 5/5-1041, 55 ILCS 5/
3-5029 and 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq. No plat of a subdivision of land located
within the jurisdictional area shall be recorded until it has been approved by
the County Board.
   (B)   No person proposing to make, or having made, a subdivision within the
county shall enter into any contract for sale of, or shall offer to sell, a
subdivision, or any part thereof, until that person has obtained the approval
of the final plat and that said subdivision has been recorded and filed.
   (C)   Any person who wishes to begin with construction work of a subdivision
before the subdivision plat has been approved and recorded does so at his or
her own risk.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06  EXCEPTIONS; SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   The subdivision plat and provisions of these regulations do not apply for
the following:
   (A)   The division of land into parcels of two acres or more in size that
does not involve any new streets or easements of access, provided the division
creates no less than 125 feet of road frontage on any new or remaining tracts;
   (B)   The conveyance of parcels of land, or interests therein, for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any streets or easements of access;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land, provided that no lot will be created that would violate
any zoning ordinance;
   (D)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with public use;
   (E)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
   (F)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parcels of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new street or easement of
access;
   (G)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (H)   The division and distribution of land pursuant to law or court order;
   (I)   The sale of less than two acres from a large tract when a survey is
made by a professional land surveyor, provided the division creates no less
than 125 feet of road frontage on any new or remaining tracts; and/or
   (J)   Any other instance where the state does not require filing of plat, as
per the State Plat Act.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.07  RECORDING.
   (A)   The County Board shall not approve a final plat for filing with the
County Clerk unless the following conditions are met and no lot shall be sold
for such subdivision or re-subdivision until it has been recorded by the County
Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the County Clerk to record a plat until it
has been approved according to this chapter and meets the following
requirements.
      (1)   The final plat shall conform to the State Plat Act and all other
laws of the state.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform to all the requirements of the
specifications within this chapter.
      (3)   The subdivider shall provide a performance bond or post a guarantee
to the county an amount as established by the County Board.
      (4)   After the completion of construction, and the subsequent approval
of the County Engineer, the bond or guarantee shall be returned or terminated.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08  FEES.
   (A)   The fees collected by the County Clerk for the review of improvement
plans, final plat review/recording and G.I.S. recording shall be distributed as
directed by the County Board.
   (B)   The improvement plan review fee shall be $20 for up to two lots. All
lots over two shall be an additional $5 per lot.
   (C)   The final plat review/recording fee shall be $76 for up to two lots.
All lots over two shall be an additional $5 per lot.
   (D)   The G.I.S. recording fee shall be $25 total.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this chapter derive shall be in
full force and effect from the date of its adoption.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.20  GENERAL STATEMENT.
   The subdivider shall conform to the following principles and standards of
land subdivision in the design of each subdivision or portion thereof. No plat
shall be approved unless it conforms to the following minimum standards of
design.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.21  STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The arrangement, extent, width and location of all streets shall be
considered in their relation to the following factors:
      (1)   Existing and planned streets;
      (2)   Reasonable circulation of traffic;
      (3)   Topographic conditions;
      (4)   Run off of stormwater; and
      (5)   Public convenience and safety.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall provide for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas. In
no case shall access be denied to any parcel of land by the subdividing of
land.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.22  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All materials used in the construction of the road surfaces shall
conform to the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction as
established by the State Department of Transportation.
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way width of any street shall be 50 feet.
      (2)   The minimum roadway width shall be 24 feet with a minimum surface
width of 18 feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre in size, excluding road
easements, for lots using private sewage disposal systems according to
Ch. 50. A larger area maybe required if Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health
Department and/or the County Board deems the minimum acreage will cause health
problems or nuisance conditions.
      (4)   Alleys will only be permitted in high-density residential
subdivisions. Alleys shall have a minimum surface width of 16 feet and a
minimum right-of-way of 40 feet.
      (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum radius of 40 feet with a
corresponding right-of-way radius of 50 feet. The maximum length of any cul-de-
sac should be 1,320 feet. The minimum road frontage on a cul-de-sac shall be 25
feet.
      (6)   Intersections of more than two streets at a point shall be
prohibited.
      (7)   Streets should intersect at right angles as far as physically
possible. No streets shall intersect at any angle less than 65 degrees.
      (8)   Between reverse curves, there shall be a minimum tangent of 50
feet.
      (9)   Horizontal curves shall have a minimum radius of 255 feet.
      (10)   Vertical curves shall have minimum curve length of 90 feet.
      (11)   Set back lines shall have a minimum of 25 feet on all road
frontages and have a minimum of ten feet on all other lot lines.
      (12)   Easements of a minimum of ten feet in width shall be provided on
each side of all rear lot lines and alongside water, sewer and/or other mains
and for electric and telephone lines or for other public utilities.
      (13)   No street shall be approved which will be subject to frequent
flooding.
      (14)   All cross road culverts shall have a minimum diameter of 15 inches
and all entrance culverts shall have a minimum diameter of 12 inches. All pipes
shall be designed in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices.
The material and installation shall be subject to the approval of the County
Engineer and the Township Road Commissioner.
      (15)   Subgrade preparation shall be in accordance with § 301 of the
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction. A sub-base may be
required also if poor soil conditions exist.
      (16)   Road beds shall consist of a minimum of eight inches of compacted
crushed stone base course with a dust free bituminous surface treatment A-3.
All methods and materials shall be in accordance with § 403 of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (17)   Signs shall be placed in accordance with Manual of Uniform Traffic
ControlDevices and the subdivider shall bear all expenses. All signs shall have
a minimum reflective sheeting of high- intensity prismatic.
      (18)   All trees and brush shall be removed from within the limits of the
right-of-way.
      (19)   Roadside ditches with a depth of 18 inches or more shall have a V-
bottom ditch with 3:1 front and back slopes.
   (B)   See table below for minimum street requirements for land access.
Minimum Residential Street Requirements for Land Access
Terrain        Level (0%-8%)      Rolling (8%-15%)   Hilly (Over 15%)
Classification
Post                 401-               401-
Development    0-400 1,000 >1,000 0-400 1,000 >1,000 0-400 401- 1,000 >1,000
ADT
Minimum Residential Street Requirements for Land Access
Terrain        Level (0%-8%)      Rolling (8%-15%)       Hilly (Over 15%)
Classification
Post                 401-                 401-                   401-
Development    0-400 1,000 >1,000 0-400   1,000   >1,000 0-400   1,000   >1,000
ADT
Alley policy   See Discussion     See Discussion         See Discussion
width
Base course    8”  8”  8”   8” Agg8” Agg8”   8” Agg8” Agg8”
thickness      Agg.  Agg.  Agg.                   Agg.                   Agg.
Cul-de-sac
R.O.W. radius  50    50    50     50      50      50     50      50      50
(feet)
Cul-de-sac
surface radius 40    40    40     40      40      40     40      40      40
(feet)
*Curb and
gutter         no    no    yes    no      no      yes    no      no      yes
required
**Design speed 30    30    30     25      25      25     20      20      20
(mph)
***Maximum
cul-de-sac     1,320 1,000 700    1,320   1,000   700    1,320   1,000   700
length (feet)
**Maximum      4     4     4      8       8       8      15      12      8
grades (%)
**Minimum
horizontal     300   300   300    180     180     180    100     100     100
curve radius
(feet)
Pavement width 18    22    24     18      22      24     18      22      24
(feet)
Right-of-way   50    55    60     50      55      60     50      55      60
Roadway crown
(%)            1.5-3 1.5-3 1-2    1.5-3   1.5-3   1-2    1.5-3   1.5-3   1-2
(tangent only)
Shoulder type  Earth Agg.  --     Earth   Agg.    --     Earth   Agg.    --
Shoulder width 2     3     --     3       4       --     3       4       --
(feet)
Sidewalk
distance from  --    --    5      --      --      5      --      --      5
curb face
(feet)
Sidewalk width --    --    5      --      --      5      --      --      5
(feet)
**Stopping
sight distance 200   200   200    155     155     155    125     125     125
(feet)
Surface type   A-3   A-3   3” HMA-3     A-3     3” HMA-3     A-3     3” HMA
and thickness
**Tangent
between        50    50    50     50      50      50     50      50      50
reverse curves
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Where no curb and gutter is required; roadside ditches w/min 18” depth, V-
bottom and 3:1 front and back slopes shall be provided
** Recommended
*** Length of maximum grade sections to be limited 300 feet
 
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)  Penalty, see §
151.99
REVIEW PROCESS
§ 151.35  PRE-APPLICATION PHASE.
   (A)   Before submitting a preliminary plat, the developer shall meet with
the County Engineer, Plat Officer and Bi-County Health officials and present
the proposed subdivision. This meeting shall be done to give guidance to the
developer and to obtain information and comments for his or her subdivision.
   (B)   The developer should be familiar with regulations, public policies and
objectives applicable to the territory in which the proposed subdivision lies.
The developer is encouraged to consult with the  Bi-County Health Department,
county officials, city officials, public utility companies, school districts,
road districts and other agencies and districts concerning the availability of
services and facilities in the proposed area to be subdivided.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.36  PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person planning to file for record a plat of a subdivision within
the jurisdiction of the County Board shall first submit two copies of the
preliminary plat to the Plat Officer, two copies to the County Engineer and two
copies to the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department, when applicable.
   (B)   Exception is made, however, in the case of plats, vacations and
dedications prepared by or for the state, the county or a township in
connection with the improvement of any highway or road or in connecting the
laying out, altering, vacating or widening of roads by the County Engineer.
   (C)   The plat shall be presented to the Plat Officer, County Engineer and
the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department, when applicable.
   (D)   The plat shall be presented at least 30 days prior to the County Board
meeting at which its approval shall be considered.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.37  PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The preliminary plat is to be provided by the subdivider and must include
the following information:
   (A)   The preliminary plat of the subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of
100 feet to one inch or larger; provided, however, that the resulting drawing
would not be over 36 inches in the longest dimension.
   (B)   When necessary, the plat may be on several sheets, accompanied by an
index sheet showing the entire subdivision;
   (C)   Name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
location. The name cannot duplicate the name of any previously recorded plat;
   (D)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and the professional land
surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat;
   (E)   Names of all streets adjoining or within the proposed subdivision and
right-of-way width;
   (F)   Tract boundary lines showing their lengths, directions and references
to the lines or corners;
   (G)   Legend, north arrow and date;
   (H)   Layout of proposed lots with dimensions, numbers and area for each
lot;
   (I)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
   (J)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
   (K)   Easements existing and proposed, with location, widths and purposes;
and
   (L)   Building setback lines.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.38  IMPROVEMENT PLAN PROCEDURE.
   One copy of the improvement plans shall be presented to the Plat Officer,
County Engineer and the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County Health Department when
applicable. The plan review process will consist of the Plat Officer, with the
help of the County Engineer, to check for compliance with the chapter and to
provide approval, conditional approval or denial to the County Board.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.39  IMPROVEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The improvement plan that is to be provided by the subdivider shall not be
greater than 36 inches in the longest dimension and shall include the following
information:
   (A)   Location map;
   (B)   Subdivision name and location;
   (C)   North arrow and scale;
   (D)   Title block with name and address of the developer, engineering firm
and engineer’s seal; and
   (E)   One or more bench marks in or near the subdivision to which the
subdivision is referenced. The elevation shall be based on the mean-sea-level
datum;
   (F)   Plans, profiles and cross sections of streets surface width, rights-
of-way, elevations, grades, roadway details, curbs and gutters, drainage
facilities, sidewalks and any other improvements to be constructed. Plans and
profiles of streets and other improvements shall be scaled not less than one
inch equals 100 feet horizontal and one inch equals ten feet vertical;
   (G)   Location and size of existing and proposed utilities;
   (H)   Contours based on mean-sea-level datum (USGS digitized contours will
not be accepted);
   (I)   List of the standards and specifications followed;
   (J)   An estimate by a professional engineer for the cost of all
improvements;
   (K)   Draft of protective covenants;
   (L)   Compliance with the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program, as adopted by the County Board; and
   (M)   Erosion and sediment control plan, if required the E.P.A.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.40  MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   Minor subdivisions may be exempted, with the written approval of the Plat
Officer, from the procedures and requirements for the preliminary plan and
plat. The minor subdivision exemption shall be presented at least 30 days prior
to the County Board meeting at which its approval shall be considered. The
subdivider may proceed to the final plat procedures and requirements.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.41  FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit a final plat within one year of the
approval of the preliminary plat and the improvement plan. The final plat shall
be submitted to the Plat Officer with four copies.
   (B)   The final plat must contain all required signed certifications other
than signed certificates of approval by the County Board Chairperson, Plat
Officer, County Engineer and County Clerk. The final plat shall retain the
overall characteristics of the preliminary.
   (C)   The subdivider may elect to include all or part of the preliminary
plan. It shall contain the necessary documents required for performance bond or
form of guarantee, before the plat is recorded.
   (D)   The County Board shall not approve a final plat unless the plat meets
the design standards and specifications set by this chapter and shall meet all
other requirements by law for the state. After reviewing the plat, the County
Board may approve the plat by a two-thirds vote.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.42  FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat shall consist of all items included in the preliminary plat
and the following specifications:
   (A)   All signatures must be signed in black ink;
   (B)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot;
   (C)   The subdivision plat must be signed by the owner(s), or by his, her or
their authorized attorney, and his, her or their signature(s) must be
acknowledged before a notary and under signature and seal of a notary;
   (D)   The subdivision plat must contain the certificates by the surveyor,
with signature(s), date and seal;
   (E)   The subdivision plat must contain approval and certificate of the
County Board;
   (F)   The subdivision plat must contain certification of access from the
State Department of Transportation, when required;
   (G)   The subdivision plat must contain certification by the County Clerk
that all taxes have been paid;
   (H)   The subdivision plat must contain certification of drainage with
professional engineer’s signature, date and seal;
   (I)   The subdivision plat must contain certificate of school district;
   (J)   The subdivision plat must contain certificate of Health Department;
   (K)   The subdivision plat must contain certificate of County Engineer;
   (L)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot markers;
   (M)   Parcel number(s);
   (N)   Boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles, closing with
an error of not more than one foot to 5,000 feet. Reference shall be made to
known permanent monuments. If no permanent monuments exist, they shall be
established in a manner such that they will not be moved by frost, which mark
the external boundaries of the parcel to be divided and must be shown on the
plat; and
   (O)   Right-of-way line of streets, easements and other rights-of-way and
property lines and areas of lots and other parcels, with dimensions, bearings
and curve data, including radii, arcs and chords, points of tendency and
central angles.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
VARIANCES
§ 151.55  VARIANCES.
   Generally, the requirements included in this chapter are the minimum
acceptable to the county. However, the County Board may grant a specific
variance from the provisions of this chapter, provided that the request would
meet all requirements imposed by state statue, not be detrimental to public
interest and still keep the general intent of the chapter.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.56  VARIATION PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall be utilized to process a variance.
   (A)   The subdivider shall apply in writing for such a variance upon filing
the plat with the County Board.
   (B)   The variance request shall be examined the County Engineer, who shall
make a recommendation to the County Board.
   (C)   The County Board shall make its decision within 30 days from the date
of receipt of the variance request.
   (D)   Any variation granted shall be in writing and clearly state all
conditions requiring the variance and shall set forth the exact terms of the
variance, a copy of which shall be attached to the final plats.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates, disobeys, neglects or refuses to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of any part of this chapter shall
be in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. Each week such violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The owner or lessee of any building or structure, lot of land, or
part thereof, where anything in violation of the chapter shall be placed or
exist and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation
employed in connection wherewith and who may have assisted in the commission of
any violation shall each be liable to the fine hereinbefore specified. These
penalties are in addition to any other penalties prescribed under 765 ILCS 205,
the State Plat Act.
   (B)   Additional remedies. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken
in law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building structure or premises.
These remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-6-2013)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATES AND FORMS
   (A)   Owner’s certificate.
   OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
   765 ILCS 205/2 states that the plat must be completed, a statement from a
Registered Land Surveyor attached and acknowledged by the owner of the land, or
his attorney duly authorized, in the same manner as deeds of land are required
to be acknowledged;
   (A)   The plat must contain a signature certificate with original signatures
of the landowner or a representative of the owner.
   (B)   If the property is owned under a Trust, the Trust Officer’s signature
and seal of the bank (if available) must be included on the plat.
   (C)   The signature of the owner(s) must be acknowledged by a Notary Public
and a legible seal for the Notary stamped on the plat.
Certificate of Ownership
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN   )
      This is to certify that
___________________________________________________________
is/are the owner(s) of the land described herein and as such owner(s) has
caused the same to be surveyed, subdivided and platted into lots, streets and
easements as shown on said plat, for the uses and purposes therein set forth as
allowed and provided by statute, the subdivision is to be herein after be known
as “__________________________________________________________________________”
The streets and roadways as shown shall hereby be dedicated to the public for
the uses and purposes pertaining thereto.
                                       By:_________________________________
                                                   Owner(s)
                                       By:_________________________________
                                                   Owner(s)
   (B)   Notary’s certificate.
   NOTARY’S CERTIFICATE
Notary Certificate
I, ___________________________________________, a notary public in and for the
said County
of Franklin, the State of Illinois, do hereby certify that,
______________________________________
are personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed on
the foregoing plat, appeared before me this date in person and acknowledged
that they signed and sealed the said plat as their free and voluntary act for
the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notary seal this ______day of ______, 20 ______
                                    ________________________________
                                             Notary Public
   (C)   School district certificate.
SCHOOL DISTRICT CERTIFICATE
   Public Act 90-286 (765 ILCS 205/1.005) requires when an owner is required to
file a plat pursuant to Section 1 of the Plat Act, the owner shall submit
simultaneously with the subdivision plat a notarized statement indicating to
the best of the owner’s knowledge, the school district in which each tract,
parcel, lot or block lies. The school district certificate should be placed on
the plat.
School District Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN   )
I (We),
______________________________________________________________________________„
hereby certify that the real property as described by the legal description
herein, lies within the ____________________________________Unit
_______________________________________
school district and the
___________________________________________________college district.
________________________________________      _____________________________________
            Owner                                       Owner
   (D)   County certificate.
COUNTY CERTIFICATES
   If county approval is required (based upon the description included in the
Surveyor’s Certificate) the Franklin County Plat Officer must sign and seal the
plat.
   If the plat includes a County Highway, the Franklin County Engineer must
sign and seal the plat.
The County Clerk must certify that there are not delinquent or current property
taxes due or outstanding special assessments. The certificate must be signed
and sealed by the County Clerk.
   If the plat will not be serviced by a public sewer system and private sewage
systems will be installed, the plat must bear a certificate from the Franklin-
Williamson Bi-County Health Department that the plat is in accordance with all
applicable regulations of the Illinois Department of Health.
Franklin County Board Chairman Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
At a regular meeting of the County Board of Franklin County, Illinois held on
the ____________ day of __________20 ____________, the foregoing plat was
presented to and approved by the County Board Chairman.
                                       ____________________________________
                                                   Chairman
   (E)   Plat officer certificate.
Plat Officer Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
This is to certify that, as the authorized representative of the Franklin
County Board, I have reviewed this plat on their behalf and have found it to be
in compliance with the Franklin County Subdivision Chapter and all other
applicable county requirements.
Dated this ___________day of ________________, 20 ________________.
                                       ____________________________________
                                             Franklin County Plat Officer
   (F)   County Engineer’s certificate.
County Engineer’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
I, _______________________, Franklin County Engineer, have reviewed this plat
of subdivision. This is to certify that all improvements, as required under the
Franklin County Subdivision Chapter and all other applicable county
requirements as required, have been installed and approved, or in lieu of such
construction, a security instrument in an amount sufficient of cover the cost
of said improvements, has been filed with the Highway Department.
Dated this _____________day of _______________, 20 ________________.
                                             ______________________________
                                                   County Engineer
   (G)   County Clerk tax certificate.
County Clerk Tax Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     )ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
I, ____________________, County Clerk and Recorder of Franklin County,
Illinois, do hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, no
unpaid current taxes or special assessments, no unpaid forfeited taxes and no
redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the plat. I further
certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with the plat.
Given under my name and seal of the County Clerk at Benton, Illinois on this
__________day of ________ 20 ____________.
                                             _____________________________
                                                 Franklin County Clerk
   (H)   County Clerk approval certificate.
County Clerk Approval Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
I, _______________, County Clerk and Recorder of Franklin County, Illinois, and
keeper of the seal of said county and the tax records thereof, do hereby
certify that on the __________ day of _______________, 20 ______________, at a
regular meeting, the County Board did accept and approve the foregoing plat. In
witness whereof, I have set my hand and official seal of Franklin County,
Illinois.
                                                __________________________
                                                   Franklin County Clerk
   (I)   Health Department certificate.
Health Department Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN   )
This is to certify that the plat for the tract of land described in the
foregoing certificates has been reviewed by the Franklin-Williamson Bi-County
Health Administrator and has/has not been found adequate for the use of
individual septic systems. A central sewage treatment package will/will not be
required.
Dated this ______________day of _______________, 20 __________________________
                                          ________________________________
                                             Franklin-Williamson Bi-County
                                                Health Administrator
   (J)   Professional Engineer’s drainage certificate.
Professional Engineer’s Drainage Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN   )
I (We), ______________________________________________________, owners of the
land subdivided herein, and __________________________________, Illinois
Professional Engineer No. __________, do hereby certify that, to the best of
our knowledge and belief, the construction of any part of said subdivision will
not change the drainage of surface waters in such a manner as to cause damage
to adjoining properties or, that if such surface water drainage will be
changed, reasonable provision has been made for the collection and diversion of
such surface waters into public areas or drains that the subdivider has a right
to use and that such surface waters will be planned for in accordance with
generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of
damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of the
subdivision.
Dated this ______________________________day of ___________________, 20
_________________
                                                _________________________
                                                   Illinois Professional
Engineer
                                                Lic. No.__________________
                                                __________________________
                                                    Owner or Attorney
   (K)   Illinois Department of Transportation certificate.
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION CERTIFICATE
The subdivision plat shall have an additional certificate of acceptance signed
by a representative of the Illinois Department of Transportation when the only
direct access to the subdivision is from a state highway or roadway.
Illinois Department of Transportation Roadway Access Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
This plat has been approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation with
respect to roadway access pursuant to 765 ILCS 205/2. However, a highway permit
for access is required of the owner of the property prior to construction
within State rights-of-way. A plat that meets requirements contained in the
Department’s “Policy on Permits for Access Driveways to State Highways” will be
required by the Department.
Dated this __________________day of _________________, 20
_____________________________
                                          _________________________________
                                                   District Engineer
   (L)   Annexation certificate.
Annexation Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                     ) ss.
COUNTY OF FRANKLIN    )
This is to certify that the land herein described was annexed into the
municipal limits of ______________________________by Ordinance Number
_________________. Said annexation Ordinance was filed in the County Clerk’s
Office of Franklin County, Illinois in Miscellaneous Record Book,
___________Page ___________on the ___________day of __________, 20
________________.
                                          ________________________________
                                            Illinois Professional Land Surveyor
   (M)   Surveyor’s certificates.
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATES
1. Located Within Corporate Limits (Requires Municipal Approval)
I, ______________________________, Illinois Professional Land Surveyor No.
__________________ do hereby certify that at the request of
_____________________________, I have surveyed _________________________and
subdivided it into lots, to be known as ________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
I further certify that this plat is located within an incorporated city that
has adopted a city plan and is exercising the special powers authorized by
Division 12 of Article II of the Illinois Municipal Code.
I further certify that no part of this subdivision is located in the special
flood hazard area identified for the City of ___________________by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and none of the lots platted hereon are within a
surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
I further certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief this is a true
and correct survey as platted hereon.
In witness thereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my Illinois
Professional Land Surveyor’s seal at ___________________________________,
Illinois, this ____________day of 20 ___________
                                             _____________________________
                                             Illinois Professional Land
Surveyor
2. Located Outside Corporate Limits, But Within 1.5 Mile Limit of a
Municipality Which Has A Comprehensive Plan and Is Exercising Its Powers
(Requires Municipal and County Approval)
I, ______________________________, Illinois Professional Land Surveyor No.
__________________ do hereby certify that at the request of
_____________________________, I have surveyed _________________________and
subdivided it into lots, to be known as ________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
I further certify that this plat is not located within an incorporated city,
but is within 1.5 miles of the corporate limits of the County of Franklin that
has adopted a city plan and is exercising the special powers authorized by
Division 12 of Article II of the Illinois Municipal Code.
I further certify that no part of this subdivision is located in the special
flood hazard area identified for the County of Franklin by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and none of the lots platted hereon are within a
surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
I further certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief this is a true
and correct survey as platted hereon.
In witness thereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my Illinois
Professional Land Surveyor’s seal at __________________________, Illinois, this
___________ Day of ___________, 20 _________
                                          _________________________________
                                             Illinois Professional Land
Surveyor
3. Located Outside Corporate Limits, But Within 1.5 Mile Limit of a
Municipality Which Has A Comprehensive Plan But Is Not Exercising Its Powers
(Requires County Approval)
I, ______________________________, Illinois Professional Land Surveyor No.
__________________ do hereby certify that at the request of
_____________________________, I have surveyed _________________________and
subdivided it into lots, to be known as ________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
I further certify that this plat is not located within an incorporated city,
but is within 1.5 miles of the corporate limits of the City of Franklin that
has adopted a city plan but is not exercising the special powers authorized by
Division 12 of Article II of the Illinois Municipal Code.
I further certify that no part of this subdivision is located in the special
flood hazard area identified for the County of Franklin by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and none of the lots platted hereon are within a
surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
I further certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief this is a true
and correct survey as platted hereon.
In witness thereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my Illinois
Professional Land Surveyor’s seal at _______________, Illinois, this
______________ day of ___________, 20 _________________
                                             _____________________________
                                             Illinois Professional Land
Surveyor
4. Located Outside Corporate Limits and Outside 1.5 Mile Limit of a
Municipality Which Has A Comprehensive Plan (Requires County Approval)
I, ______________________________, Illinois Professional Land Surveyor No.
__________________ do hereby certify that at the request of
_____________________________, I have surveyed _________________________and
subdivided it into lots, to be known as ________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
I further certify that this plat is not located within 1.5 miles of the
corporate limits of any city or village that has adopted a city plan.
I further certify that no part of this subdivision is located in the special
flood hazard area identified for the County of Franklin by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and none of the lots platted hereon are within a
surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
I further certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief this is a true
and correct survey as platted hereon.
In witness thereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my Illinois
Professional Land Surveyor’s seal at ___________________, Illinois, this
___________ day of ____________, 20 ______________
                                             _____________________________
                                                Illinois Professional Surveyor
   (N)   Schedule of review.
   (O)   Affidavit of compliance with Illinois Plat Act requirements.
AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE WITH ILLINOIS PLAT ACT REQUIREMENTS
PARCEL NUMBER: ________________________________________________________________
The Grantor(s) or the Grantor(s)’ authorized representative, transferring an
interest in real property described in the accompanying deed, state the
following:
_______ A.  NOT A DIVISION OF LAND (requiring no change of parcel boundary
lines)
       If A is checked above, the County Clerk will proceed with recording the
deed after the review of the Plat Officer and no further questions apply.
Please sign below.
_______ B. A DIVISION OF LAND (requiring a change of parcel boundary lines)
meeting one of these exceptions:
      ___   1. The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of
two (2) acres or more in size not involving new streets or easements with a
minimum of two (2) acres residue provided the division creates no less than 125
feet of road frontage any new or remaining tracts.
      ___   2. The division of lots or blocks of less than one (1) acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
      ___   3. The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of an
adjoining and contiguous land.
      ___   4.  The conveyance of land for use as a right of way for public
utilities and other pipelines not involving new streets or easements of access.
      ___   5. The conveyance of land for highway or other public purpose or
relating to the dedication of land or for vacation of land subject to public
use.
      ___   6. Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
      ___   7. The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or easements or
access.
      ___   8. The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility not involving any new streets or easements access.
      ___   9. The division and distribution of land pursuant to law or court
order.
      ___ 10. The sale of a lot of less than two (2) acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered land surveyor, provided the division
creates no less than 125 feet of road frontage on any new or remaining tracts.
_______ C.  A DIVISION OF LAND (a change of parcel boundary lines) not meeting
one of the above exceptions.
In accordance with Section 1a of the Illinois Plat Act 765 ILCS 205/1(a)), all
divisions under five (5) acres must be surveyed and a subdivision plat prepared
by a professional land surveyor licensed in the state of Illinois. Accordance
with Illinois Law (225 ILCS 330/5 Sec C) all legal descriptions for land
divisions must be prepared by a registered Professional Land Surveyor.
Who prepared this legal description? _______________Illinois License
Number_____________________
Phone_________________________
Does this division of land fall within the jurisdiction of another city or
municipality? ____ No ____ Yes
If yes, which
jurisdiction?_______________________________________________________________
Under the penalties of perjury I swear that the statements contained here are
true and correct.
Seller Name ______________________________________________
DATE______________________
Seller Signature ___________________________________________
PHONE_____________________
CHAPTER 152:  FLOODPLAINS
Section
Floodplain Development
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Effective date
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Base flood elevation
   
152.05   Duties of the County Engineer
   
152.06   Development permit
   
152.07   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.08   Protecting buildings
   
152.09   Subdivision requirements
   
152.10   Public health and other standards
   
152.11   Carrying capacity and notification
   
152.12   Variances
   
152.13   Liability
Insurance
   
152.25   National Flood Insurance Program; compliance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derives is
enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this county by county
statutory authority in 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 and 5/5-1063 in order to accomplish the
following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings, and major improvements to buildings, from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayers for flood control repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riperian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance from which the provisions of this subchapter derives shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval and
publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The BASE
FLOODELEVATION at any location is as defined below.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean-sea-level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings and gas
or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities;
         (e)   Construction of roads, bridges, culverts or similar projects;
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (g)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (h)   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (i)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the floodplain
or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and may or may not depict floodways and show base flood
elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These terms are synonymous.
Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject to
innundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the county are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by
FEMA and dated November 18, 2009. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known
flooding, as identified by the community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Big Creek Tributary, Pond Creek
and Ewing Creek shall be as delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate
map of the county prepared by FEMA and dated November 18, 2009. The FLOODWAYS
for each of the remaining floodplains of the county shall be according to the
best data available from the federal, state or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. Damage of less than 50% of the fairmarket
value will be applied to the repetitive loss calculations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER (or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.04  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Big Creek Tributary,
Pond Creek and Ewing Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of the county prepared by FEMA
on November 18, 2009.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as a “A Zone” on the countywide flood insurance rate map shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or sources. Should no
other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the applicant to
determine base flood elevations.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.05  DUTIES OF THE COUNTY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The County Engineer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the county meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the County Engineer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.06;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.07;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.08 are met and maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.09;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.10;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.12 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.13 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections and make substantial damage
determinations for structures within the floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.06  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the County Engineer. The County Engineer shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.08; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements, as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
County Engineer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The County Engineer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate
map identification.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within all the floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
      (10)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
      (11)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13; and
      (12)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.08  PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.07, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any repairs which have taken place
subsequent to the adoption of the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   Structural alterations made to an existing building which increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (7)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.03.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials.
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters.
         (b)   The lowest floor, and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air-conditioning equipment and utility meters, shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as currents, waves, ice and floating debris.
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade.
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
   (C)   Manufactured homes to be permanently installed on site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for 210 ILCS 120, the
State Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days shall meet the elevation requirements of division (c) above unless the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (2)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (3)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (4)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (5)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and be inflated.
      (6)   Air-conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain.
      (7)   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick-
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (8)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (9)   The vehicle must be either entirely supported by jacks rather than
blocks or have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to be
easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (E)   (1)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation), provided a registered professional engineer or
architect certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
the impact from debris and ice; and
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (2)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (E).
   (F)   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use may be
permitted provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $7,500 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
   (G)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event.
      (6)   Positions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The County Board shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
152.07 and
152.08 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.10  PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.07 and
152.08, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or
contamination from them, during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11  CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the county shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
§ 152.12  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the County Engineer
for a variance. The County Engineer shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the County Board. The County
Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The County Engineer shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
152.08, that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.08 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of §
152.10(A)(1) through (A)(5).
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13  LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This
subchapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the
floodplain will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create
liability on the part of the county or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
INSURANCE
§ 152.25  NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM; COMPLIANCE.
   The County Board hereby:
   (A)   Assures, the Federal Insurance Administration that it will enact as
necessary and maintain in force in those areas having flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective provisions with the criteria set forth in §§ 59 et seq.
of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations;
   (B)   Vests the County Engineer with the responsibility, authority and means
to:
      (1)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in the delineation
of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide or flood-related
erosion hazards;
      (2)   Provide information the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide or flood-related erosion
areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudflow or
flood-related erosion areas and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards; and
      (4)   Submit, on forms provided by the Administrator, an annual report on
the progress made during the past year within the community in the development
and implementation of floodplain management measures.
   (C)   Upon occurrence, notifies the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. Include an accurate
corporate limit map suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new
corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. The community will use
the flood insurance rate map or flood hazard boundary map published for the
community from which land areas were annexed or from that political entity that
previously has regulatory authority until the Administrator provides a map
using the new corporate limits;
   (D)   Appoints the County Engineer to maintain for public inspection and to
furnish upon request (for determining flood insurance premium rates), the
following information on all new and substantially improved structures
constructed within the identified special flood hazard area:
      (1)   The actual (as-built) lowest floor (including basement) elevation
in relation to mean-sea-level;
      (2)   Any certificates of floodproofing;
      (3)   Whether or not a building has a basement; and
      (4)   For all floodproofed structures, the elevation to which the
structure has been floodproofed.
   (E)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Res. 2007-07, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of §§
152.01 through
152.13. Upon due investigation, the County Engineer may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of §§
152.01 through
152.13 exists. The County Engineer shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
      (2)   If such owner fails, after ten days notice, to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The county shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with §§
152.01 through
152.13 or make such other order as the court deems necessary to secure
compliance with §§
152.01 through
152.13.
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 or each offense.
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
         (d)   The county shall record a notice of violation on the title to
the property.
      (3)   The County Engineer shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 9-22-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   ZONING AND MAPPING
      
V.   REAL ESTATE
      
VI.   PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STREETS
      
VII.   COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEMS
      
VIII.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
      
IX.   PRIVATE AMBULANCE SERVICES
      
X.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting the U.S. Cable Television Group L.P. the
                          right to erect, maintain and operate in, under, over,
                          along and across the streets, sidewalks and the like
1997-05       6-17-1997   and in other public places in the county and to
                          operate, maintain and repair the broadband
                          telecommunications network, transmission and
                          distribution by cable television signals for a period
                          of 15 years.
                          Renewing a cable television franchise with Galaxy
2002-04       9-17-2002   Cable, Inc., d/b/a Galaxy Cablevision and approving
                          the change of the expiration date.
                          Granting a franchise to SEC Cable Co., an Illinois
                          Corporation, its successors and assigns, to build,
2004-03       6-29-2004   construct, operate and maintain a cable television
                          system in the county as well as setting forth
                          conditions of operation.
R. 2006-23    2-21-2006   Consenting to the asset purchase agreement between
                          Susquehanna Cable and Comcast Corporation.
                          Consenting to the asset purchase agreement between
R. 2010-06    7-20-2010   Galaxy Cable Inc., d/b/a/ Galaxy Cablevision and Zito
                          Midwest LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
                          Consenting to the membership interest purchase
R. 2013-11    3-19-2013   agreement between Telecommunications Management LLC,
                          doing business as NewWave Communications, and RBI
                          Holding II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
 
TABLE II:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Awarding contract regarding Section 88-08115-00BR,
-             2-20-1990   Township Bridge Program, Frankfort Road District,
                          TR204, to Perry County Construction.
R. 93-41      6-28-1993   Authorizing lease agreement between the county and
                          the County Jail Public Building Commission.
-             5-1-1999    Amending lease agreement between the county and the
                          County Jail Public Building Commission.
                          Authorizing and providing for an installment purchase
                          agreement for the purpose of paying a part of the
2002-02       8-13-2002   cost of building and equipping a juvenile detention
                          center, a county office building complex and related
                          facilities.
                          Entering into five-year lease-purchase agreement with
R. 2008-23    9-16-2008   Government Capital Corporation for the purpose of
                          procuring a digital voice logging system.
R. 2014-13    4-22-2014   Amendment to delinquent tax program.
 
TABLE III:  INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Confirming active participation in the programs and
R. 1991-34    4-16-1991   activities of the Greater Egypt Regional Planning and
                          Development Commission.
                          Authorizing the consolidation of Big Muddy Community
                          Action Agency with Volunteer Services, Inc. into
R. 99-62      12-21-1999  Crosswalk Community Action Agency and designating the
                          aforesaid Crosswalk Community Action Agency as the
                          community action agency for Franklin, Jackson,
                          Jefferson and Williamson Counties.
                          Authorizing the entering of an intergovernmental
                          agreement by, and among, the county, the County
2004-05       10-19-2004  Sheriff and the City of Benton regarding the
                          provision of 9-1-1 answering and emergency dispatch
                          service.
                          Authorizing participation as a member in the State
                          Emergency Management Mutual Aid System response,
2007-18       9-18-2007   pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement by, and
                          between, the county and the State Emergency
                          Management Association.
2009-04       7-21-2009   Authorizing agreement for participation in the State
                          Public Works Mutual Aid Network.
                          Authorizing and approving the incorporation of
2013-02       1-22-2013   Johnson County into the educational service region
                          comprised of Franklin, Williamson and Johnson
                          Counties.
 
TABLE IV:  ZONING AND MAPPING
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Authorizing and directing the County Recorder to provide the maps
R.    8-16-  for abandoned coal mines to SIU-E/IDNR for digitization and
2005- 2005   subsequent transfer to the state archives with the understanding
59           that the county will receive digital images of the maps suitable
             for local archiving and use with the county’s G.I.S.
 
TABLE V:  REAL ESTATE
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Establishing the procedure for the sale of real
                          estate beginning at a point 461 feet west of the
                          center of Section 20, T7S, R2E; thence north 500
                          feet; thence west 395 feet, more or less, to the
R. 2003-39    11-18-2003  center of the Big Muddy River; thence southwesterly
                          along the center line of the Big Muddy River to the
                          east and west center line of Section 20, T7S, R2E;
                          thence east 695 feet, more or less, to the point of
                          beginning.
                          Establishing the procedure for the sale of real
R. 2009-28    9-22-2009   estate commonly known as 10541 Tate Street, West
                          Frankfort, Illinois and located at the corner Ezra
                          and Tate Streets in Pershing.
 
TABLE VI:  PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STREETS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
R.    3-19-  Installing of flashing light signals at the Mo. Pac. Railroad Crossing
1991- 1991   approximately two miles south of Benton.
17
R.    3-22-  Exercising the county’s authority to name or rename specific streets in the
1994- 1994   unincorporated areas of the county.
11
             Approving the plat of survey filed as Document No. 20-1896 and accepting the
             part of the public road set forth in said plat of survey described as
1997- 4-22-  commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 5 and running thence east 560 feet
02    1997   along the south line of Lot 5, Lot 6, Lot 7 and Lot 8 to the southeast corner
             of Lot 3; thence running south 40 feet to a point; thence running west 560
             feet to the northeast corner of Lot 2; thence running north 40 feet to the
             southwest corner of said Lot 5 as a public road.
 
TABLE VII:  COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEMS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Providing for the deletion of County Highway No. 5 from a point 150 feet
             west of the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of the northeast
      11-20- quarter of the  southwest quarter of Section 32, T6S, R3E (Rural Reference
-     1990   No. 625N and 1325E) at the intersection of County Highway No. 5 and County
             Highway No. 18; thence northerly 2.17 miles of County Highway No. 5 to a
             point 897 feet north of the southeast corner of Section 19, T6S, R3E at the
             city limits of Benton from the county highway system.
             Providing for the addition of County Highway No. 5 from a point 150 feet
             west of the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of the northeast
1991- 10-22- quarter of Section 32, T6S, R3E (Rural Reference No. 625N and 1325E) at the
54    1991   intersection of County Highway No. 5 and County Highway No. 18; thence
             northerly 2.17 miles of County Highway No. 5 at a point 897 feet north of
             the southeast corner of Section 19, T6S, R3E, at the city limits of Benton
             to the county highway system from Benton Township.
             Providing for the deletion of County Highway No. 27 beginning at the
             northeast corner of Section 36, T6E, R2E, 3rd P.M. Franklin County also
             being the intersection of County Highway No. 27 and Illinois Route 37;
1999- 7-20-  thence westerly a distance of 2.25 miles to the northwest corner of the
37    1999   northeast quarter of Section 34, T6S, R2E; thence southerly 1.0 mile to the
             southwest corner of the southeast quarter, Section 34, T6S, R2E also being
             the intersection of County Highway No. 11 (Yellow Banks Road; FAS 1877)
             from the county highway system to Browning Township.
R.    10-22- Providing for the addition of Old 148 (Gannett/ Yellow Banks Road) from
2013- 2013   Illinois Route 148 westerly 0.05 mile, in its entirety, to the county
22           highway system.
 
TABLE VIII:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          10-22-1991Approving a Tax Increment Economic
1991-4                    Development Plan and Economic Development Project for
                          the Economic Development Project Area.
                          10-22-1991Establishing the Economic Development
1991-5                    Project Area of the county as an Economic Development
                          Project Area pursuant to the Economic Development
                          Project Area Tax Increment Allocation Act of 1991.
1991-6                    10-22-1991Adopting tax increment allocation financing
                          for the Economic Development Project Area.
                          Repealing Ord. 94-02 relating to the issuance of
2008-05       11-18-2008  Economic Development Project Area Tax Increment
                          Financing Bonds-series 1994.
 
TITLE IX:  PRIVATE AMBULANCE SERVICES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Limiting the number of private enterprise ambulance
                          services providing service to or from points within
                          or without the area of the county, not including
                          Frankfort and Denning Townships, to only one and that
R. 2003-01    1-21-2003   necessary contracts, rules and/or regulations for the
                          provision of this ambulance service shall be adopted
                          at a later time once the most feasible and viable
                          private enterprise is chosen which can provide
                          adequate and continuing ambulance service concurrent
                          with the provision of the exclusive chosen franchise.
                          Limiting the number of ground ambulance service
                          providers providing service to or from points within
2003-03       5-20-2003   or without the county, not including Frankfort and
                          Denning Townships, to only one and fixing the fees
                          for the designated ground ambulance service provider.
 
TABLE X:  ENTERPRISE ZONES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
1994- 2-22-  Amending and adding Exhibit B, which exhibit is attached to this ordinance and
01    1994   made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise Zone.
1997- 10-6-  Amending and making a technical correction to the Franklin County-Benton
08    1997   Enterprise Zone by deleting § V and adding a new § V as detailed in this
             ordinance.
1997- 10-6-  Amending and adding Exhibits A and B, dated 9-1997 respectively, which
09    1997   exhibits are attached to this ordinance and made a part thereof, to the
             Franklin County-Benton Enterprise Zone.
1997- 11-18- Amending and adding Exhibits A-2 and B-2, dated 11-18-1997 respectively, which
10    1997   exhibits are attached to this ordinance and made a part thereof, to the
             Franklin County-Benton Enterprise Zone.
1999- 1-4-   Amending and adding Exhibits A-3 and B-3, which exhibits are attached to this
01    1999   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-4 and B-4, which exhibits are attached to this
04    2007   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-5 and B-5, which exhibits are attached to this
05    2007   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-6 and B-6, which are attached to this ordinance
06    2007   and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise Zone.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and making a technical correction to the Franklin County-Benton
07    2007   Enterprise Zone by deleting § VI(c) and adding a new § VI(c) as detailed in
             this ordinance.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and making a technical correction to the Franklin County-Benton
08    2007   Enterprise Zone by deleting § VI(b) and adding a new § VI(b) as detailed in
             this ordinance.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and making a technical correction to the Franklin County-Benton
09    2007   Enterprise Zone by adding a new § VI(f) as detailed in this ordinance.
2007- 7-17-  Amending and making a technical correction to the Franklin County-Benton
10    2007   Enterprise Zone by adding a new § VI(g) as detailed in this ordinance.
R.    7-17-  Amending § 6 Property Tax Abatement of the Intergovernmental Agreement of 12-
2007- 2007   11-1989.
13
2009- 10-20- Amending Ord. 1989-7 to alter the termination of the date of the Franklin
06    2009   County-Benton Enterprise Zone from 2-28-2010 to 2-29-2020.
R.    10-20- Amending the Intergovernmental Agreement of 12-11-1989 by deleting § 4 and
2009- 2009   adding a new § 4 as detailed in this resolution.
31
2010- 4-20-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-7 and B-7, which exhibits are attached to this
02    2010   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
R.    4-20-  Amending the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise Zone by deleting § 1 and
2010- 2010   inserting a new § 1 and § 2 as detailed in this resolution.
19
2013- 6-18-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-8 and B-8, which exhibits are attached to this
05    2013   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
2013- 9-17-  Amending and adding Exhibits A-9 and B-9, which exhibits are attached to this
08    2013   ordinance and made a part thereof, to the Franklin County-Benton Enterprise
             Zone.
2014- 12-16- Establishment of the I-57 Enterprise Zone.
09    2014
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section               Code Section
5 ILCS 1.05                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.01             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.07             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                10.04
5 ILCS 140/1               10.17
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.   10.02
5 ILCS 275/7               32.22
5 ILCS 275/7 et seq.       32.32
5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.       30.01
5 ILCS 315/3               35.20
5 ILCS 430/5-15            35.21
5 ILCS 430/10              35.22
5 ILCS 440/1 et seq.       10.05
10 ILCS 5/1-3              35.20
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4            35.20
10 ILCS 5/9-3              35.20
20 ILCS 3305               32.20
20 ILCS 3305/10(g)         32.26
20 ILCS 3910/7             30.20,
                           33.10
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.      34.15
35 ILCS 200/21-15          34.03
35 ILCS 200/31-25          34.02
50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.      116.09
55 ILCS 5/3-5029           151.05
55 ILCS 5/3-8001 et seq.   31.055
55 ILCS 5/5-1-1001 et seq. 10.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1030           34.16
55 ILCS 5/5-1011           10.17
55 ILCS 5/5-1030 et seq.   34.15
55 ILCS 5/5-1031           34.02
                           151.02,
55 ILCS 5/5-1041           151.05,
                           152.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1063           152.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1101           33.12
55 ILCS 5/5-1101(a)        33.04
55 ILCS 5/5-1101(c)        33.04
55 ILCS 5/5-1101(e)        33.07
55 ILCS 5/5-1101(f)        33.05
55 ILCS 5/5-1113           10.99
55 ILCS 5/5-29003          10.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1          33.03
114 ILCS 1/2               92.04
210 ILCS 120               152.08
                           50.01,
225 ILCS 225               50.04,
                           50.05
225 ILCS 225/3             50.01
225 ILCS 225/11            50.07
225 ILCS 330/5 Sec C       Ch. 151, App. A
225 ILCS 454               92.04
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.      111.046,
                           115.01
235 ILCS                   111.021
410 ILCS 82                112.03
410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.     112.20
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       114.01
                           91.01,
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       91.04,
                           91.06
510 ILCS 5/11              91.53
510 ILCS 5/19              91.20
510 ILCS 5/26              91.99
605 ILCS 125               30.04
625 ILCS 5                 33.04,
                           33.07
625 ILCS 5/1-88            10.02
625 ILCS 5/7-703           33.03
625 ILCS 5/11-501          33.04
705 ILCS 45                33.03
705 ILCS 105/27.1a         33.03
705 ILCS 105/27.5          33.04
705 ILCS 305/0.01 et seq.  30.03
705 ILCS 405               33.03
720 ILCS 5/21-3            110.01
720 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       30.01
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.   30.01
725 ILCS 150/1 et seq.     30.01
725 ILCS 175/1 et seq.     30.01
730 ILCS 5/5-9-1           33.04,
                           33.07
730 ILCS 125/17            33.13
755 ILCS 5                 33.03
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.   31.066
765 ILCS 205               151.99
                           31.015,
                           31.018,
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.  31.023,
                           31.026,
                           151.02
765 ILCS 205/1.005         Ch. 151, App. A
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.     151.05
765 ILCS 205/1(a)          Ch. 151, App. A
765 ILCS 205/2             Ch. 151, App. A,
                           152.09
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.  35.03
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1990-01  6-19-1990   30.03
-        11-20-1990  TSO, Table VII
1991-17  3-19-1991   TSO, Table VI
1991-34  4-16-1991   TSO, Table III
1991-54  10-22-1991  TSO, Table VII
1992-49  12-22-1992  Ch. 70, Schd. I
93-41    6-28-1993   TSO, Table II
1993-03  8-17-1993   Ch. 71, Schd. I
1994-11  3-22-1994   TSO, Table VI
1994-29  10-18-1994  34.01
1996-11  5-21-1996   35.04
1996-214 12-17-1996  33.13
1997-66  6-17-1997   33.02
99-33    6-22-1999   33.04
99-62    12-21-1999  TSO, Table III
2000-07  - -         150.02
2001-29  10-16-2001  31.080
2002-34  5-21-2002   31.001
2003-01  1-14-2003   TSO, Table IX
2003-04  1-21-2003   Ch. 70, Schd. I
2003-28  5-20-2003   Ch. 70, Schd. I
2003-39  11-18-2003  TSO, Table V
2003-45  12-16-2003  Ch. 70, Schd. I
2004-62  9-21-2004   33.07
2004-63  9-21-2004   30.05
2004-71  12-21-2004  32.06
2005-57  5-17-2005   34.02
2005-59  8-16-2005   TSO, Table IV
2005-66  11-22-2005  32.01
2005-67  11-22-2005  32.02
2006-23  2-21-2006   TSO, Table I
2006-41  11-21-2006  34.04
2007-07  3-20-2007   150.02,
                     152.25
2007-12  - -         34.03
2007-13  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-15  - -         35.02
2008-23  9-16-2008   TSO, Table II
2009-28  9-22-2009   TSO, Table V
2009-31  10-20-2009  TSO, Table X
2009-52  12-22-2009  33.06
2009-55  12-22-2009  33.03
2010-19  4-20-2010   TSO, Table X
2010-21  6-22-2010   32.04
2010-06  7-20-2010   TSO, Table I
2011-17  4-19-2011   32.05
11-29    9-20-2011   51.20
2011-63  12-20-2011  32.03
2012-16  4-17-2012   33.05
2012-17  4-17-2012   30.20
2012-18  4-17-2012   33.10
2012-24  9-18-2012   30.04
2012-52  12-18-2012  30.01
2013-11  3-19-2013   TSO, Table I
2013-22  10-22-2013  TSO, Table VII
2013-61  11-19-2013  34.16
2013-60  12-1-2013   33.12
2013-63  12-17-2013  30.01
2014-03  6-17-2014   35.03
2014-13  4-22-2014   TSO, Table II
2014-27  11-18-2014  33.10
2014-28  11-28-2014  33.08
2015-16  3-17-2015   30.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        2-20-1990   TSO, Table II
-        11-20-1990  TSO, Table VII
1991-2   9-17-1991   31.055 -
                     31.066
1991-4   10-22-1991  TSO, Table VIII
1991-5   10-22-1991  TSO, Table VIII
1991-6   10-22-1991  TSO, Table VIII
                     32.55,
1992-1   1-13-1992   32.56,
                     32.99
1992-3   4-21-1992   32.55
1992-6   6-16-1992   114.01 -
                     114.13
1993-03  8-17-1993   Ch. 71, Schd. I
1994-01  2-22-1994   TSO, Table X
1994-10  12-20-1994  32.55
95-01    3-21-1995   34.15,
                     34.99
                     92.01 -
1995-03  9-18-1995   92.25,
                     92.99
                     111.001 -
                     111.007,
                     111.020 -
1995-4   9-19-1995   111.031,
                     111.045 -
                     111.058,
                     111.999
1996-01  2-20-1996   30.02
1996-03  6-18-1996   32.56,
                     32.99
                     51.01 -
1997-01  2-18-1997   51.08,
                     51.99
1997-02  4-22-1997   TSO, Table VI
1997-05  6-17-1997   TSO, Table I
1997-08  10-6-1997   TSO, Table X
1997-09  11-18-1997  TSO, Table X
1997-10  6-16-1998   TSO, Table X
1999-01  1-4-1999    TSO, Table X
-        5-1-1999    TSO, Table II
1999-37  7-20-1999   TSO, Table VI
                     91.01 -
                     91.07,
                     91.20 -
                     91.24,
2001-01  6-19-2001   91.35 -
                     91.37,
                     91.50 -
                     91.52,
                     91.99
2002-02  8-13-2002   TSO, Table II
2002-04  9-17-2002   TSO, Table I
2003-01  1-21-2003   TSO, Table IX
2003-02  4-22-2003   35.01
2003-03  5-20-2003   TSO, Table IX
                     35.20 -
2004-02  6-29-2004   32.24,
                     35.99
2004-03  6-29-2004   TSO, Table I
2004-05  10-19-2004  TSO, Table III
2005-01  3-22-2005   33.01
                     130.01 -
2005-05  12-20-2005  130.06,
                     130.99
                     50.01 -
2006-01  3-28-2006   50.10,
                     50.99
2007-02  3-20-2007   150.01,
                     150.99
2007-04  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-05  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-06  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-07  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-08  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-09  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-10  7-17-2007   TSO, Table X
2007-11  - -         111.027
2007-18  9-18-2007   TSO, Table III
2008-03  5-20-2008   33.01
2008-05  11-18-2008  TSO, Table VIII
2009-04  7-21-2009   TSO, Table III
                     152.01 -
2009-05  9-22-2009   152.13,
                     152.99
2009-06  10-20-2009  TSO, Table X
2010-01  3-16-2010   31.015 -
                     31.028
2010-02  4-20-2010   TSO, Table X
2010-05  7-20-2010   33.11
2010-06  7-20-2010   TSO, Table I
2011-01  5-17-2011   33.01
2011-04  6-21-2011   32.20 -
                     32.43
2011-07  11-22-2011  33.02
2011-08  11-22-2011  33.02
                     113.01,
2012-01  3-21-2012   113.02,
                     113.99
2012-03  6-19-2012   35.03
                     90.01-
2012-04  7-17-2012   90.04 ,
                     90.99
                     111.046,
2012-05  8-21-2012   115.01,
                     115.02,
                     115.99
2013-02  1-22-2013   TSO, Table III
                     151.01-
                     151.09,
                     151.20-
                     151.22,
2013-04  5-6-2013    151.35-
                     151.42,
                     151.55,
                     151.56,
                     151.99
2013-05  6-18-2013   TSO, Table X
                     112.01-
2013-07  9-17-2013   112.09,
                     112.99
2013-08  9-17-2013   TSO, Table X
2014-04  8-19-2014   116.01 -
                     116.10
2014-06  11-18-2014  112.20
2014-09  12-16-2014  TSO, Table X
                    
 
 
